src/md/src/UserRoleGuides/index.md, before:

# User role guides
Here are the links to User Guide sections divided by ReportPortal User roles.

### Administrator
[Installation steps](/docs/Installation-steps-)  
[Getting started](/docs/Getting-started)  
[User account](/docs/User-account)  
[Log data in ReportPortal](/docs/Log-data-in)  
[Logging Integration](/docs/Logging-Integration)  
[Saved searches (Filters)][1]    
[Dashboards and Widgets](/docs/Dashboards-and-Widgets)  
[Management Board](/docs/Management-Board)  
[Tips and tricks](/docs/Tips-and-tricks)  

### Project Manager
[Getting started](/docs/Getting-started)  
[Management Board](/docs/Management-Board)  
[Work with reports](/docs/Work-with-reports)  
[Saved searches (Filters)][1]    
[Dashboards and Widgets](/docs/Dashboards-and-Widgets)  
[User account](/docs/User-account)  

### Lead, Member
[Work with reports](/docs/Work-with-reports)  
[Analysis](/docs/Analysis)  
[Saved searches (Filters)][1]    
[Dashboards and Widgets](/docs/Dashboards-and-Widgets)  
[User account](/docs/User-account)  
[Log data in Report Portal](/docs/Log-data-in)  
[Logging Integration](/docs/Logging-Integration)  

### Customer
[Work with reports](/docs/Work-with-reports)  
[Analysis](/docs/Analysis)  
[Saved searches (Filters)][1]    
[Dashboards and Widgets](/docs/Dashboards-and-Widgets)  
[User account](/docs/User-account)  

[1]: /docs/Saved-searches-(Filters)

Commit message:

Added Operator and removed Lead (#190)

src/md/src/UserRoleGuides/index.md, after:

# User role guides
Here are the links to User Guide sections divided by ReportPortal User roles.

### Administrator
[Installation steps](/docs/Installation-steps-)  
[Getting started](/docs/Getting-started)  
[User account](/docs/User-account)  
[Log data in ReportPortal](/docs/Log-data-in)  
[Logging Integration](/docs/Logging-Integration)  
[Saved searches (Filters)][1]    
[Dashboards and Widgets](/docs/Dashboards-and-Widgets)  
[Management Board](/docs/Management-Board)  
[Tips and tricks](/docs/Tips-and-tricks)  

### Project Manager
[Getting started](/docs/Getting-started)  
[Management Board](/docs/Management-Board)  
[Work with reports](/docs/Work-with-reports)  
[Saved searches (Filters)][1]    
[Dashboards and Widgets](/docs/Dashboards-and-Widgets)  
[User account](/docs/User-account)  

### Member
[Work with reports](/docs/Work-with-reports)  
[Analysis](/docs/Analysis)  
[Saved searches (Filters)][1]    
[Dashboards and Widgets](/docs/Dashboards-and-Widgets)  
[User account](/docs/User-account)  
[Log data in Report Portal](/docs/Log-data-in)  
[Logging Integration](/docs/Logging-Integration)  

### Operator
[Work with reports](/docs/Work-with-reports)  
[Analysis](/docs/Analysis)  
[Saved searches (Filters)][1]    
[Dashboards and Widgets](/docs/Dashboards-and-Widgets)  
[User account](/docs/User-account)

[See list of project members](http://reportportal.io/docs/Project-configuration%3Emanagement-of-users-on-the-project)

### Customer
[Work with reports](/docs/Work-with-reports)  
[Analysis](/docs/Analysis)  
[Saved searches (Filters)][1]    
[Dashboards and Widgets](/docs/Dashboards-and-Widgets)  
[User account](/docs/User-account)  

[1]: /docs/Saved-searches-(Filters)
