docs/external-integrations/UserProvisioning/Scim/okta.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: SCIM Okta
---

# SCIM Okta

# Prerequisites

- You have an Okta application.
- You SAML Okta integration. For more information, see [SAML Okta](../../../plugins/authorization/SamlProviders/OktaSaml.mdx).

# Configuration

1. Go to your Okta account.

2. Go to the `Applications` tab.

3. Select the application you want to configure.

4. Go to the `General` tab.

5. In the `App Settings` section, click `Edit`.

 <MediaViewer src={require('../../img/scimOkta/1.png')} alt="General tab" />

6. Select `Enable SCIM provisioning` and `Save` the changes.

<MediaViewer src={require('../../img/scimOkta/2.png')} alt="Enable SCIM provisioning" />

7. Go to the `Provisioning` tab and click `Edit`.

<MediaViewer src={require('../../img/scimOkta/3.png')} alt="Provisioning tab" />

8. Fill in the following fields:
- SCIM connector base URL: `https://<your-scim-server-host>`
- Unique identifier field for users: `userName`
- Supported provisioning actions: `Push New Users`, `Push Profile Updates`, `Push Groups`.
- Authentication Mode: `HTTP Header`
- Authorization: `{your-admin-api-key}`

<MediaViewer src={require('../../img/scimOkta/4.png')} alt="Provisioning settings" />

9. `Test connection configuration` and `Save` the changes.

Commit message:

Add note about SCIM Okta feature availability in ReportPortal Enterprise

docs/external-integrations/UserProvisioning/Scim/okta.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: SCIM Okta
---

# SCIM Okta

:::note
This feature is available in ReportPortal Enterprise only.
:::

# Prerequisites

- You have an Okta application.
- You SAML Okta integration. For more information, see [SAML Okta](../../../plugins/authorization/SamlProviders/OktaSaml.mdx).

# Configuration

1. Go to your Okta account.

2. Go to the `Applications` tab.

3. Select the application you want to configure.

4. Go to the `General` tab.

5. In the `App Settings` section, click `Edit`.

 <MediaViewer src={require('../../img/scimOkta/1.png')} alt="General tab" />

6. Select `Enable SCIM provisioning` and `Save` the changes.

<MediaViewer src={require('../../img/scimOkta/2.png')} alt="Enable SCIM provisioning" />

7. Go to the `Provisioning` tab and click `Edit`.

<MediaViewer src={require('../../img/scimOkta/3.png')} alt="Provisioning tab" />

8. Fill in the following fields:
- SCIM connector base URL: `https://<your-scim-server-host>`
- Unique identifier field for users: `userName`
- Supported provisioning actions: `Push New Users`, `Push Profile Updates`, `Push Groups`.
- Authentication Mode: `HTTP Header`
- Authorization: `{your-admin-api-key}`

<MediaViewer src={require('../../img/scimOkta/4.png')} alt="Provisioning settings" />

9. `Test connection configuration` and `Save` the changes.
