docs/reportportal-configuration/authorization/SAMLProvider/AzureSAML.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Azure SAML
---

# Azure SAML

***If you have a pre-created Internal user, you can't log in by SAML using their credentials (Email or Name).***

Login to ReportPortal via Azure SAML is available starting from version 5.7 (SAML Okta was implemented in versions before 5.7).

Azure SAML is a useful authorization method for big companies with 100+ employees, especially if this organization is already presented in Azure service. The main benefit here is no need for manual account creation. Users can log in to the ReportPortal using Azure SAML in an uncomplicated way: select login with SAML, then choose Azure, and upon login users’ data is synchronized with ReportPortal automatically.

If your organization is using Azure SAML and some employees left, there is no need to remove their accounts from ReportPortal and from other Azure applications – just clearing their accounts in Azure will be enough.

To configure authorization via Azure SAML we need to synchronize Azure and ReportPortal.

Firstly, configure SAML on Azure side.

## Configure SAML on Azure side

1. Log in to [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) using your organization creds.

2. Click ```App Services```.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML1.png')} alt="App Services button" />

3. Click ```View``` in the ```Manage Azure Active Directory``` section.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML2.png')} alt="View button" />

4. Click ```Manage Tenants```.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML3.png')} alt="Manage Tenants" />

### Create organization in Azure

5. If you haven’t configured organization in Azure yet, click ```Create```.

>**NOTE:** if you have configured organization in Azure, please, go to step 9.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML4.png')} alt="Configure organization" />

6. Select a tenant type (```Azure Active Directory```) and click ```Next: Configuration >``` button.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML5.png')} alt="Select a tenant type" />

7. Fill in the necessary fields and click ```Next: Review + create >``` button.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML6.png')} alt="Create a tenant" />

8. Pass the Captcha verification and click the ```Create``` button.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML7.png')} alt="Captcha verification" />

### Create your application in Azure

9. After the creation of an organization go to the ```Enterprise Applications``` section.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML8.png')} alt="Enterprise Applications section" />

10. Click ```New application```.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML9.png')} alt="New application button" />

11. Click ```Create your own application```.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML10.png')} alt="Create your own application" />

12. Enter the name of your application, choose ```Integrate any other application you don't find in the gallery (Non-gallery)``` bullet and click ```Create``` button.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML11.png')} alt="The name of your application" />

### Assign users to the application in Azure

13. Assign users (e.g., yourself) to this application. Please, follow the next screenshots:

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML12.png')} alt="Assign users to your application" />

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML13.png')} alt="Add user/group" />

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML14.png')} alt="Add assignment" />

### Configure Single sign-on on Azure

14. Go to the ```Single sign-on``` section.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML15.png')} alt="Single sign-on section" />

15. Choose SAML.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML16.png')} alt="Select a Single sign-on method" />

### Basic SAML Configuration

16. Configure ```Basic SAML Configuration``` settings as follows:

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML17.png')} alt="Basic SAML Configuration" />

### Add Azure attributes

17. Edit ```Attributes & Claims``` settings and add ***email***, ***firstName*** and ***lastName*** attributes (default Azure attributes have ugly format). Please follow the next screenshots:

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML18.png')} alt="Edit Attributes & Claims settings" />

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML19.png')} alt="Add new claim" />

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML20.png')} alt="Manage claim" />

SAML configuration is completed on Azure side after adding these attributes.

Lastly, configure SAML on ReportPortal side.

## Configure SAML on ReportPortal side

1. Log in to **ReportPortal** as Admin.

2. Open Menu at the bottom and choose ```Administrate``` section.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML21.png')} alt="Administrate section to configure SAML on ReportPortal side" />

3. Select ```Plugins```.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML22.png')} alt="Plugins section" />

4. Open ```SAML```.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML23.png')} alt="SAML plugin" />

5. Click the ```Add integration``` button.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML24.png')} alt="Add integration" />

## Synchronize Azure SAML and ReportPortal

6. Synchronize Azure SAML and ReportPortal as follows:

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/SAMLIntegration.png')} alt="Configure SAML on ReportPortal side" />

Finally, you can log in to ReportPortal using Azure SAML.

Commit message:

EPMRPP-83978 || Update plugins documentation (#554)
Co-authored-by: Yuliya_Prihodko <Yuliya_Prihodko@epam.com>

docs/reportportal-configuration/authorization/SAMLProvider/AzureSAML.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Azure SAML
---

# Azure SAML

SAML plugin is available in ReportPortal on the Plugins page.

***If you have a pre-created Internal user, you can't log in by SAML using their credentials (Email or Name).***

Login to ReportPortal via Azure SAML is available starting from version 5.7 (SAML Okta was implemented in versions before 5.7).

Azure SAML is a useful authorization method for big companies with 100+ employees, especially if this organization is already presented in Azure service. The main benefit here is no need for manual account creation. Users can log in to the ReportPortal using Azure SAML in an uncomplicated way: select login with SAML, then choose Azure, and upon login users’ data is synchronized with ReportPortal automatically.

If your organization is using Azure SAML and some employees left, there is no need to remove their accounts from ReportPortal and from other Azure applications – just clearing their accounts in Azure will be enough.

To configure authorization via Azure SAML we need to synchronize Azure and ReportPortal.

Firstly, configure SAML on Azure side.

## Configure SAML on Azure side

1. Log in to [Azure portal](https://portal.azure.com) using your organization creds.

2. Click ```App Services```.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML1.png')} alt="App Services button" />

3. Click ```View``` in the ```Manage Azure Active Directory``` section.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML2.png')} alt="View button" />

4. Click ```Manage Tenants```.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML3.png')} alt="Manage Tenants" />

### Create organization in Azure

5. If you haven’t configured organization in Azure yet, click ```Create```.

>**NOTE:** if you have configured organization in Azure, please, go to step 9.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML4.png')} alt="Configure organization" />

6. Select a tenant type (```Azure Active Directory```) and click ```Next: Configuration >``` button.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML5.png')} alt="Select a tenant type" />

7. Fill in the necessary fields and click ```Next: Review + create >``` button.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML6.png')} alt="Create a tenant" />

8. Pass the Captcha verification and click the ```Create``` button.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML7.png')} alt="Captcha verification" />

### Create your application in Azure

9. After the creation of an organization go to the ```Enterprise Applications``` section.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML8.png')} alt="Enterprise Applications section" />

10. Click ```New application```.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML9.png')} alt="New application button" />

11. Click ```Create your own application```.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML10.png')} alt="Create your own application" />

12. Enter the name of your application, choose ```Integrate any other application you don't find in the gallery (Non-gallery)``` bullet and click ```Create``` button.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML11.png')} alt="The name of your application" />

### Assign users to the application in Azure

13. Assign users (e.g., yourself) to this application. Please, follow the next screenshots:

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML12.png')} alt="Assign users to your application" />

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML13.png')} alt="Add user/group" />

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML14.png')} alt="Add assignment" />

### Configure Single sign-on on Azure

14. Go to the ```Single sign-on``` section.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML15.png')} alt="Single sign-on section" />

15. Choose SAML.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML16.png')} alt="Select a Single sign-on method" />

### Basic SAML Configuration

16. Configure ```Basic SAML Configuration``` settings as follows:

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML17.png')} alt="Basic SAML Configuration" />

### Add Azure attributes

17. Edit ```Attributes & Claims``` settings and add ***email***, ***firstName*** and ***lastName*** attributes (default Azure attributes have ugly format). Please follow the next screenshots:

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML18.png')} alt="Edit Attributes & Claims settings" />

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML19.png')} alt="Add new claim" />

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML20.png')} alt="Manage claim" />

SAML configuration is completed on Azure side after adding these attributes.

Lastly, configure SAML on ReportPortal side.

## Configure SAML on ReportPortal side

1. Log in to **ReportPortal** as Admin.

2. Open Menu at the bottom and choose ```Administrate``` section.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML21.png')} alt="Administrate section to configure SAML on ReportPortal side" />

3. Select ```Plugins```.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML22.png')} alt="Plugins section" />

4. Open ```SAML```.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML23.png')} alt="SAML plugin" />

5. Click the ```Add integration``` button.

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/AzureSAML24.png')} alt="Add integration" />

## Synchronize Azure SAML and ReportPortal

6. Synchronize Azure SAML and ReportPortal as follows:

<media-view src={require('./img/azure-saml/SAMLIntegration.png')} alt="Configure SAML on ReportPortal side" />

Finally, you can log in to ReportPortal using Azure SAML.
