docs/reportportal-configuration/authorization/SAMLProvider/OktaSAML.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Okta SAML
---

# Okta SAML

***If you have a pre-created Internal user, you can't log in by SAML using their credentials (Email or Name).***

<media-view thumbnail={require('./img/OktaSAML.png')} src="https://youtu.be/ljXvCVWG4mQ" alt="SAML configuration" type="video" />

To set up access with SAML:

1. Log in to the ReportPortal as an ADMIN user

2. Then open the list on the right of the user's image.

3. Click the 'Administrative' link

4. Click the 'Plugins' from the left-hand sidebar

5. Click on the'SAML' tab.

6. Click on Add new integration

7. The next fields should be present:

```javascript 
'Identity provider name ID*': text
'Provider name*': text
'Metadata URL*': URL
'RP callback URL': URL - RP host/uat
'Email attribute*': text
'Name attributes mode' : 
'Last name attribute' text
'First name attribute' text
or
'Full name attribute' : text
  ```

Mandatory fields are marked with red.
Click the 'Submit' button.
All users of SAML will have access to the ReportPortal instance.  
Just click on the button 'Login with SAML' and choose a needed integration from the drop-down


On Octa side you should to specify SSO url. The format for url is the next:

```java
https://your domain adress/uat/saml/sp/SSO/alias/report-portal-sp
```

“RP callback URL” field is an optional field to provide a redirect base path right in SAML integration settings. Fill in the field in format “RP host/uat”. The format for url is the next:

```
https://reportportal.com/uat
```
Once you have submitted an integration with “RP callback URL”, the URL will be applied to all SAML integrations.

Commit message:

EPMRPP-83978 || Update plugins documentation (#554)
Co-authored-by: Yuliya_Prihodko <Yuliya_Prihodko@epam.com>

docs/reportportal-configuration/authorization/SAMLProvider/OktaSAML.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Okta SAML
---

# Okta SAML

SAML plugin is available in ReportPortal on the Plugins page.

***If you have a pre-created Internal user, you can't log in by SAML using their credentials (Email or Name).***

<media-view thumbnail={require('./img/OktaSAML.png')} src="https://youtu.be/ljXvCVWG4mQ" alt="SAML configuration" type="video" />

To set up access with SAML:

1. Log in to the ReportPortal as an ADMIN user

2. Then open the list on the right of the user's image.

3. Click the 'Administrative' link

4. Click the 'Plugins' from the left-hand sidebar

5. Click on the'SAML' tab.

6. Click on Add new integration

7. The next fields should be present:

```javascript 
'Identity provider name ID*': text
'Provider name*': text
'Metadata URL*': URL
'RP callback URL': URL - RP host/uat
'Email attribute*': text
'Name attributes mode' : 
'Last name attribute' text
'First name attribute' text
or
'Full name attribute' : text
  ```

Mandatory fields are marked with red.
Click the 'Submit' button.
All users of SAML will have access to the ReportPortal instance.  
Just click on the button 'Login with SAML' and choose a needed integration from the drop-down


On Octa side you should to specify SSO url. The format for url is the next:

```java
https://your domain adress/uat/saml/sp/SSO/alias/report-portal-sp
```

“RP callback URL” field is an optional field to provide a redirect base path right in SAML integration settings. Fill in the field in format “RP host/uat”. The format for url is the next:

```
https://reportportal.com/uat
```
Once you have submitted an integration with “RP callback URL”, the URL will be applied to all SAML integrations.
