docs/issues-troubleshooting/HowToAddATestStackTraceToADescriptionAutomatically.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: How to add a test stack trace to a description automatically
---

# How to add a test stack trace to a description automatically

You can make your process of a test analysis more convenient and quick by adding a description for failed tests that will include a last error message from the test log.

You will not need to open an every single test to see the failure reason. With this new functionality you will see test failures reasons right in a table on All launches (step level), so that you can perform group actions to items.

**How to activate this option:**

Change your listener to wrap log messages on error level with special text:

```error
    <place your error message here>
```

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/TipAndTricksStackTrace.png')} alt="Add a description for failed tests automatically in our test report dashboard" />

We have prepared an example how to extend a TestNG agent, and you can find it below:

**An extend agent service:**
```java
    public static class ParamTaggingTestNgService extends TestNGService {

        public ParamTaggingTestNgService(ListenerParameters parameters, ReportPortalClient reportPortalClient) {
            super(parameters, reportPortalClient);
        }

        @Override
        protected StartTestItemRQ buildStartStepRq(ITestResult testResult) {
            final StartTestItemRQ rq = super.buildStartStepRq(testResult);
            if (testResult.getParameters() != null && testResult.getParameters().length != 0) {
                final Set<String> tags = Optional.fromNullable(rq.getTags()).or(new HashSet<>());
                for (Object param : testResult.getParameters()) {
                    tags.add(param.toString());
                }
                rq.setTags(tags);

            }
            return rq;
        }

        @Override
        protected FinishTestItemRQ buildFinishTestMethodRq(String status, ITestResult testResult) {
            FinishTestItemRQ finishTestItemRQ = super.buildFinishTestMethodRq(status, testResult);
            if (testResult.getThrowable() != null) {
                String description =
                        "```error\n"
                                + Throwables.getStackTraceAsString(testResult.getThrowable())
                                + "\n```";
                description = description + Throwables.getStackTraceAsString(testResult.getThrowable());
                finishTestItemRQ.setDescription(description);
            }
            return finishTestItemRQ;
        }
    }
```

**An extend listener with your extended service:**
```java
    public static class ExtendedListener extends BaseTestNGListener {
        public ExtendedListener() {
            super(override(new TestNGAgentModule()).with((Module) binder -> binder.bind(ITestNGService.class)
                    .toProvider(new TestNGProvider() {
                        @Override
                        protected TestNGService createTestNgService(ListenerParameters listenerParameters,
                                ReportPortalClient reportPortalClient) {
                            return new ParamTaggingTestNgService(listenerParameters, reportPortalClient);
                        }
                    })));
        }
    }
```

Commit message:

EPMRPP-107142 || Add missing meta descriptions

docs/issues-troubleshooting/HowToAddATestStackTraceToADescriptionAutomatically.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: How to add a test stack trace to a description automatically
description: Automatically add test stack traces to descriptions for faster test failure analysis in ReportPortal test automation reporting tools.
---

# How to add a test stack trace to a description automatically

You can make your process of a test analysis more convenient and quick by adding a description for failed tests that will include a last error message from the test log.

You will not need to open an every single test to see the failure reason. With this new functionality you will see test failures reasons right in a table on All launches (step level), so that you can perform group actions to items.

**How to activate this option:**

Change your listener to wrap log messages on error level with special text:

```error
    <place your error message here>
```

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/TipAndTricksStackTrace.png')} alt="Add a description for failed tests automatically in our test report dashboard" />

We have prepared an example how to extend a TestNG agent, and you can find it below:

**An extend agent service:**
```java
    public static class ParamTaggingTestNgService extends TestNGService {

        public ParamTaggingTestNgService(ListenerParameters parameters, ReportPortalClient reportPortalClient) {
            super(parameters, reportPortalClient);
        }

        @Override
        protected StartTestItemRQ buildStartStepRq(ITestResult testResult) {
            final StartTestItemRQ rq = super.buildStartStepRq(testResult);
            if (testResult.getParameters() != null && testResult.getParameters().length != 0) {
                final Set<String> tags = Optional.fromNullable(rq.getTags()).or(new HashSet<>());
                for (Object param : testResult.getParameters()) {
                    tags.add(param.toString());
                }
                rq.setTags(tags);

            }
            return rq;
        }

        @Override
        protected FinishTestItemRQ buildFinishTestMethodRq(String status, ITestResult testResult) {
            FinishTestItemRQ finishTestItemRQ = super.buildFinishTestMethodRq(status, testResult);
            if (testResult.getThrowable() != null) {
                String description =
                        "```error\n"
                                + Throwables.getStackTraceAsString(testResult.getThrowable())
                                + "\n```";
                description = description + Throwables.getStackTraceAsString(testResult.getThrowable());
                finishTestItemRQ.setDescription(description);
            }
            return finishTestItemRQ;
        }
    }
```

**An extend listener with your extended service:**
```java
    public static class ExtendedListener extends BaseTestNGListener {
        public ExtendedListener() {
            super(override(new TestNGAgentModule()).with((Module) binder -> binder.bind(ITestNGService.class)
                    .toProvider(new TestNGProvider() {
                        @Override
                        protected TestNGService createTestNgService(ListenerParameters listenerParameters,
                                ReportPortalClient reportPortalClient) {
                            return new ParamTaggingTestNgService(listenerParameters, reportPortalClient);
                        }
                    })));
        }
    }
```
