docs/admin-panel/ServerSettings.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Server Settings
---

# Server Settings

In the Server Settings section, you can enable GitHub authorization, allowing users to sign in with their GitHub credentials. Additionally, you can configure the instance to allow login only through SSO and here you can enable or disable Google Analytics.

## Authorization configuration

### GitHub

To enable [GitHub authorization](/plugins/authorization/GitHub/):

1. Log in as ADMIN.
2. Go to Administrate > Server Settings.
3. Switch ON the "GitHub authorisation" toggle.
4. Fill in required [parameters for authorization](/plugins/authorization/GitHub#reportportal-configuration).
5. Click "Submit".

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/server-settings/ServerSettings1.png')} alt="Enable GitHub authorization in our test automation dashboard" />

Now you can access ReportPortal by clicking the "Login with GitHub" button on the login page.

### Instance Invitations

Administrator can disable the possibility for manual invitation of external users. In such case, users can get access to ReportPortal via identity provider only (for example, SAML) configured on the instance.

The default state of toggle on "Instance Invitations" section is OFF.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/server-settings/ServerSettings2.png')} alt="Toggle on Instance Invitations section" />

When toggle is OFF:

1. The "Invite User" and "Add User" buttons are displayed on the "All Users" page.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/server-settings/ServerSettings3.png')} alt="All Users page when toggle is OFF" />

2. The "Invite User" button is displayed on the "Project Members" page.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/server-settings/ServerSettings4.png')} alt="Project Members page when toggle is OFF" />

When toggle is ON, manual invitation of external is disabled:

1. The "Invite User" and "Add User" buttons are removed from the "All Users" page.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/server-settings/ServerSettings5.png')} alt="All Users page when toggle is ON" />

2. The "Invite User" button on the "Project Members" page has been changed to the "Assign User" button. Now, the Project Manager and Administrator can no longer invite new users to this project and instance; they can only assign existing users to this project.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/server-settings/ServerSettings6.png')} alt="Project Members page when toggle is ON" />

To assign user on the project:

1. Log in as Project Manager or ADMIN.
2. Go to the "Project Members" page.
3. Click the "Assign User" button.
4. Start type the name > suggestions will be provided in the dropdown.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/server-settings/ServerSettings7.png')} alt="Assign user on the project on the Project Members page" />

or

1. Log in as ADMIN.
2. Go to Administrate > "All Projects" page.
3. Click on the ellipsis button on the project preview.
4. Select the "Members" option.
5. Click on the "Assign User" button.
6. Start type the name > suggestions will be provided in the dropdown.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/server-settings/ServerSettings8.png')} alt="Assign user on the project on the Members page" />

## Analytics

To turn on [Google Analytics](/terms-and-conditions/GoogleAnalyticsUsageByReportPortal/) on ReportPortal UI:

1. Log in as ADMIN.
2. Go to Administrate > Server Settings.
3. Go to Analytics tab.
4. Check "Help make Report Portal better by automatically sending analytics to us" checkbox.
5. Click on "Submit" button.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/server-settings/ServerSettings9.png')} alt="turn on Google Analytics on our test automation results dashboard" />

Commit message:

EPMRPP-100424 || Test case search widget docs (#906)
* EPMRPP-100424 || Test case search widget docs

* EPMRPP-101416 || Inactivity timeout section

---------

Co-authored-by: Yuliya_Prihodko <Yuliya_Prihodko@epam.com>

docs/admin-panel/ServerSettings.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 4
sidebar_label: Server Settings
---

# Server Settings

In the Server Settings section, you can enable GitHub authorization, allowing users to sign in with their GitHub credentials. Additionally, you can configure the instance to allow login only through SSO and here you can enable or disable Google Analytics.

## Authorization configuration

### Inactivity timeout

ADMIN can configure session expiration per instance.

For that, the ADMIN needs to navigate to Administrate > Server Settings and set up the duration of user inactivity before automatic logout in 'Inactivity timeout' block:

- 15 minutes
- 1 hour
- 12 hours
- 24 hours (default value)

The user is logged out if their session inactivity exceeds the defined timeout.

If the user is working in multiple tabs and the inactivity timeout is reached in one tab while they are still active in another, the user remains logged in until the timeout is reached in all tabs.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/server-settings/ServerSettings10.png')} alt="Inactivity timeout section" />

### GitHub

To enable [GitHub authorization](/plugins/authorization/GitHub/):

1. Log in as ADMIN.
2. Go to Administrate > Server Settings.
3. Switch ON the "GitHub authorisation" toggle.
4. Fill in required [parameters for authorization](/plugins/authorization/GitHub#reportportal-configuration).
5. Click "Submit".

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/server-settings/ServerSettings1.png')} alt="Enable GitHub authorization in our test automation dashboard" />

Now you can access ReportPortal by clicking the "Login with GitHub" button on the login page.

### Instance Invitations

ADMIN can disable the possibility for manual invitation of external users. In such case, users can get access to ReportPortal via identity provider only (for example, SAML) configured on the instance.

The default state of toggle on "Instance Invitations" section is OFF.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/server-settings/ServerSettings2.png')} alt="Toggle on Instance Invitations section" />

When toggle is OFF:

1. The "Invite User" and "Add User" buttons are displayed on the "All Users" page.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/server-settings/ServerSettings3.png')} alt="All Users page when toggle is OFF" />

2. The "Invite User" button is displayed on the "Project Members" page.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/server-settings/ServerSettings4.png')} alt="Project Members page when toggle is OFF" />

When toggle is ON, manual invitation of external is disabled:

1. The "Invite User" and "Add User" buttons are removed from the "All Users" page.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/server-settings/ServerSettings5.png')} alt="All Users page when toggle is ON" />

2. The "Invite User" button on the "Project Members" page has been changed to the "Assign User" button. Now, the Project Manager and Administrator can no longer invite new users to this project and instance; they can only assign existing users to this project.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/server-settings/ServerSettings6.png')} alt="Project Members page when toggle is ON" />

To assign user on the project:

1. Log in as Project Manager or ADMIN.
2. Go to the "Project Members" page.
3. Click the "Assign User" button.
4. Start type the name > suggestions will be provided in the dropdown.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/server-settings/ServerSettings7.png')} alt="Assign user on the project on the Project Members page" />

or

1. Log in as ADMIN.
2. Go to Administrate > "All Projects" page.
3. Click on the ellipsis button on the project preview.
4. Select the "Members" option.
5. Click on the "Assign User" button.
6. Start type the name > suggestions will be provided in the dropdown.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/server-settings/ServerSettings8.png')} alt="Assign user on the project on the Members page" />

## Analytics

To turn on [Google Analytics](/terms-and-conditions/GoogleAnalyticsUsageByReportPortal/) on ReportPortal UI:

1. Log in as ADMIN.
2. Go to Administrate > Server Settings.
3. Go to Analytics tab.
4. Check "Help make Report Portal better by automatically sending analytics to us" checkbox.
5. Click on "Submit" button.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/server-settings/ServerSettings9.png')} alt="turn on Google Analytics on our test automation results dashboard" />
