src/md/src/InstallationSteps/DeployReportPortal.md, before:

## Deploy ReportPortal

ReportPortal can be easily deployed using Docker-Compose. 

1. Make sure the [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/) ([Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/), [Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)) is installed.

2. Download the latest compose descriptor example from [here](<https://github.com/reportportal/reportportal/blob/master/docker-compose.yml>). You can make it by next command: 

  ```Shell
  curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/reportportal/reportportal/master/docker-compose.yml -o docker-compose.yml
  ```

3. Start the application using the following command:

```Shell
docker-compose -p reportportal up -d --force-recreate
``` 
Where:
- **-p reportportal** adds project prefix 'reportportal' to all containers
- **up** creates and starts containers
- **-d** daemon mode
- **--force-recreate** Re-creates containers if there any

**Useful commands:**
- **docker-compose logs** shows logs from all containers
- **docker logs &lt;container_name&gt;** shows logs from selected container
- **docker ps -a | grep "reportportal_" | awk '{print $1}' | xargs docker rm -f** Deletes all ReportPortal containers

4. Open your browser with the IP address of the deployed environment at port **9090**

You can get the host IP address by using the following docker command:

```shell
 $ docker-machine ip default
```

  ```
  http://IP_ADDRESS:9090
  ```

5. Use next **login\pass** for access: 
```shell
default\1q2w3e
or
superadmin\erebus
```

>Please change the admin password for security.


**The ReportPortal consists of the following services:**

- Authorization Service. In charge of access tokens distribution.
- Gateway Service. Main entry point to application. Port used by gateway should be opened and accessible from outside network.
- API Service. Main application API.
- UI Service. All statics for user interface.
- Analyzer Service. Collects and processes the information, then sends it to ElasticSearch
- Index Service. Responsible for redirections, collection of services information, handling errors

Commit message:

Docker Compose is going to be update (#262)
* Docker Compose is going to be update

* ElasticSearch configuration is added

* New Docker Compose

* Ports and Traefik version are updated

* Back to master branch for Docker Compose file

src/md/src/InstallationSteps/DeployReportPortal.md, after:

## Deploy ReportPortal

ReportPortal can be easily deployed using Docker-Compose. 

1. Make sure the [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/) ([Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/installation/), [Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)) is installed.

2. Download the latest compose descriptor example from [here](<https://github.com/reportportal/reportportal/blob/master/docker-compose.yml>). You can make it by next command: 

  ```Shell
  curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/reportportal/reportportal/master/docker-compose.yml -o docker-compose.yml
  ```

3. ElasticSearch configuration prerequisites for analyzer service

a) Set {vm.max_map_count} kernel setting before ReportPortal deploying with [Commands](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/6.1/docker.html#docker-cli-run-prod-mode)

b) Give right permissions to ElasticSearch data folder using the following commands:

```Shell
mkdir -p data/elasticsearch
``` 

```Shell
chmod g+rwx data/elasticsearch
``` 

```Shell
chgrp 1000 data/elasticsearch
``` 

For more details about ElasticSearch visit ElasticSearch [guide](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/6.1/docker.html#_notes_for_production_use_and_defaults)

4. Start the application using the following command:

```Shell
docker-compose -p reportportal up -d --force-recreate
``` 
Where:
- **-p reportportal** adds project prefix 'reportportal' to all containers
- **up** creates and starts containers
- **-d** daemon mode
- **--force-recreate** Re-creates containers if there any

**Useful commands:**
- **docker-compose logs** shows logs from all containers
- **docker logs &lt;container_name&gt;** shows logs from selected container
- **docker ps -a | grep "reportportal_" | awk '{print $1}' | xargs docker rm -f** Deletes all ReportPortal containers

5. Open your browser with the IP address of the deployed environment at port **8080**

You can get the host IP address by using the following docker command:

```shell
 $ docker-machine ip default
```

  ```
  http://IP_ADDRESS:8080
  ```

6. Use next **login\pass** for access: 
```shell
default\1q2w3e
or
superadmin\erebus
```

>Please change the admin password for security.


**The ReportPortal consists of the following services:**

- Authorization Service. In charge of access tokens distribution.
- Gateway Service. Main entry point to application. Port used by gateway should be opened and accessible from outside network.
- API Service. Main application API.
- UI Service. All statics for user interface.
- Analyzer Service. Collects and processes the information, then sends it to ElasticSearch
- Index Service. Responsible for redirections, collection of services information, handling errors
