docs/log-data-in-reportportal/test-framework-integration/index.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: Test Framework Integration
---

# Test Framework Integration

<media-view src={require('./img/Integrations.png')} alt="Integrations" />

ReportPortal is a system that **integrates with your Test Framework**, listens for events and visualizes test results. You cannot execute results right from ReportPortal.

How you can integrate ReportPortal with a Test Framework?

## Examples

If you do not know anything about ReportPortal. 
If you just want to integrate ReportPortal with your Test Framework and view info about test case executions: a name, a status, a duration, parameters, attachments (files, screenshots, video and other), logs and others.
So this section for you.

You can review and mimic the following examples to start your integration with the ReportPortal.

| **Test frameworks**              | **Examples**|
|----------------------------------| ------------- |
| Java Test Frameworks             |https://github.com/reportportal/examples-java  |
| JavaScript based Test Frameworks | https://github.com/reportportal/examples-js |
| .Net based Test Frameworks       | https://github.com/reportportal?q=example-net&type=&language=&sort=|
| Python based Test Frameworks     | https://github.com/reportportal/examples-python|

Commit message:

EPMRPP-83635 || Test Frameworks integration. Add integration steps (#551)

docs/log-data-in-reportportal/test-framework-integration/index.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: Test Framework Integration
---

# Test Framework Integration

<media-view src={require('./img/Integrations.png')} alt="Integrations" />

ReportPortal is a system that **integrates with your Test Framework**, listens for events and visualizes test results. You cannot execute results right from ReportPortal.

How can ReportPortal be integrated with Test Framework?

## Integration steps

To do this, you need to follow a few simple steps.

1. Installation<br />
Add an agent to your project that corresponds to the Test Framework you use.
2. Configuration<br />
Provide parameters such as ReportPortal URL, API key/token, project, launch name, etc.

:::tip
After completing these two steps, the report will be available on the ReportPortal side.<br />
But if you want to use all the features of ReportPortal, you need to take one more step.
:::

3. Update tests with additional data<br />
Fill your reports with valuable attributes, descriptions, logs, attachments, and more.

:::note
Each step may differ depending on the language and Test Framework.<br />
For specific tool details, select your language and Test Framework in the sections below.
:::

## Examples

If you do not know anything about ReportPortal.
If you just want to integrate ReportPortal with your Test Framework and view info about test case executions: a name, a status, a duration, parameters, attachments (files, screenshots, video and other), logs and others.
So this section for you.

You can review and mimic the following examples to start your integration with the ReportPortal.

| **Test frameworks**              | **Examples**|
|----------------------------------| ------------- |
| Java Test Frameworks             |https://github.com/reportportal/examples-java  |
| JavaScript based Test Frameworks | https://github.com/reportportal/examples-js |
| .Net based Test Frameworks       | https://github.com/reportportal?q=example-net&type=&language=&sort=|
| Python based Test Frameworks     | https://github.com/reportportal/examples-python|
