docs/plugins/authorization/LDAP.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: LDAP
---

# LDAP

LDAP plugin is available in ReportPortal on the Plugins page.

In a version 24.2, two step flow of adding LDAP integration is implemented.

To set up access with LDAP:

1. Log in to the ReportPortal as an ADMIN user.
2. Open the menu at the bottom by clicking on the user’s icon.
3. Click the 'Administrate' link.
4. Click the 'Plugins' from the left-hand sidebar.
5. Click on the 'LDAP' tab.
6. Click on 'Add new integration'.
7. Fill in the necessary fields:

**1. Server settings**

```javascript 
'URL' (mandatory field): text 
'Base DN' (mandatory field): text 
'Manager DN': text 
'Manager password': text 
'User DN pattern': text 
'User search filter': text 
'Group search base': text 
'Group search filter': text 
'Password encoder type': dropdown 
```

In a version 24.2, PBKDF2 encryption type has been added to the list of possible encryptions for LDAP integration.
Now have the following options for password encoding type:

- No - the password is not encoded
- PLAIN
- SHA
- LDAP_SHA
- MD4
- MD5
- PBKDF2_SHA1
- PBKDF2_SHA256
- PBKDF2_SHA512

On the LDAP provider side, we encrypt the password using one of the selected types.
When we enter the password, we encrypt it using the same method and then compare it with the encrypted password
stored by the LDAP provider.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/LDAP1.png')} alt="The list of possible encryptions for LDAP integration" />

**2. Field settings**

```javascript 
'Email attribute' (mandatory field): text 
'Name attributes mode': dropdown 
'Full name attribute / First name & Last name': options 
'Photo attribute': text
```

You can create LDAP integration either with **'Full name attribute'**
(if you select 'Full name' option in the 'Name attributes mode' dropdown) or with separate fields for **'First name'**
and **'Last name'** (if you select 'First & last name' option in the 'Name attributes mode' dropdown).

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/LDAP2.png')} alt="Full name attribute" />

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/LDAP3.png')} alt="First name and Last name attributes" />

You can provide a valid attribute for 'First name' and 'Last name'.
When the user logs in with LDAP for the first time, their full name will be saved as the combination of the First name and Last name.

:::important
Old integrations will work correctly.
You can change the 'Name attributes mode' for old integrations from Full name to First & Last name.
:::

8. Click the 'Create' button.

Now, all users of LDAP will have access to the ReportPortal instance.

To access ReportPortal, users should use their domain credentials (login and password).

You can edit your LDAP integration by clicking pencil icon:

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/LDAP4.png')} alt="Edit LDAP integration in our test automation dashboard" />

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/LDAP5.png')} alt="Edit server settings for LDAP integration" />

If you are experiencing issues, [check the LDAP connection](/issues-troubleshooting/HowToCheckLDAPConnection/).

Commit message:

EPMRPP-103520 || Add <meta> description to some pages (#937)
Co-authored-by: Yuliya_Prihodko <Yuliya_Prihodko@epam.com>

docs/plugins/authorization/LDAP.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: LDAP
description: Configure LDAP integration in your test automation results dashboard with secure encryption.
---

# LDAP

LDAP plugin is available in ReportPortal on the Plugins page.

In a version 24.2, two step flow of adding LDAP integration is implemented.

To set up access with LDAP:

1. Log in to the ReportPortal as an ADMIN user.
2. Open the menu at the bottom by clicking on the user’s icon.
3. Click the 'Administrate' link.
4. Click the 'Plugins' from the left-hand sidebar.
5. Click on the 'LDAP' tab.
6. Click on 'Add new integration'.
7. Fill in the necessary fields:

**1. Server settings**

```javascript 
'URL' (mandatory field): text 
'Base DN' (mandatory field): text 
'Manager DN': text 
'Manager password': text 
'User DN pattern': text 
'User search filter': text 
'Group search base': text 
'Group search filter': text 
'Password encoder type': dropdown 
```

In a version 24.2, PBKDF2 encryption type has been added to the list of possible encryptions for LDAP integration.
Now have the following options for password encoding type:

- No - the password is not encoded
- PLAIN
- SHA
- LDAP_SHA
- MD4
- MD5
- PBKDF2_SHA1
- PBKDF2_SHA256
- PBKDF2_SHA512

On the LDAP provider side, we encrypt the password using one of the selected types.
When we enter the password, we encrypt it using the same method and then compare it with the encrypted password
stored by the LDAP provider.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/LDAP1.png')} alt="The list of possible encryptions for LDAP integration" />

**2. Field settings**

```javascript 
'Email attribute' (mandatory field): text 
'Name attributes mode': dropdown 
'Full name attribute / First name & Last name': options 
'Photo attribute': text
```

You can create LDAP integration either with **'Full name attribute'**
(if you select 'Full name' option in the 'Name attributes mode' dropdown) or with separate fields for **'First name'**
and **'Last name'** (if you select 'First & last name' option in the 'Name attributes mode' dropdown).

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/LDAP2.png')} alt="Full name attribute" />

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/LDAP3.png')} alt="First name and Last name attributes" />

You can provide a valid attribute for 'First name' and 'Last name'.
When the user logs in with LDAP for the first time, their full name will be saved as the combination of the First name and Last name.

:::important
Old integrations will work correctly.
You can change the 'Name attributes mode' for old integrations from Full name to First & Last name.
:::

8. Click the 'Create' button.

Now, all users of LDAP will have access to the ReportPortal instance.

To access ReportPortal, users should use their domain credentials (login and password).

You can edit your LDAP integration by clicking pencil icon:

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/LDAP4.png')} alt="Edit LDAP integration in our test automation dashboard" />

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/LDAP5.png')} alt="Edit server settings for LDAP integration" />

If you are experiencing issues, [check the LDAP connection](/issues-troubleshooting/HowToCheckLDAPConnection/).
