docs/glossary/index.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 22
sidebar_label: Glossary
description: Explore ReportPortal terminology like agents, clients, loggers, launches, and widgets to understand how test reporting and analysis work across the platform.
---

# Glossary

## Agent

Agents are direct test framework integrations. If you integrate your tests with an agent then you don’t need to do anything, except adding properties and test metadata. Basically, each agent has the same naming convention: agent-&#123; language }-&#123; framework }. E.G. “agent-python-pytest”. The best way to see which agents we do have and check out the latest documentation for them is to go on ReportPortal organization page on GitHub and start searching.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/Glossary1.png')} alt="Documentation about Agents on GitHub" />

Each agent project contains a README with the latest installation instructions. Agent pages usually are being updated along with the agent code. If you found any issue with the documentation you are free to correct it with a PR or post an issue.

Agents are complete and self-sufficient integrations, all you need is to provide correct properties and optionally test metadata (like attributes and steps).

## Client

Clients are basically interfaces for our Rest API, like agents they have its naming convention: client-&#123; language }. E.G. “client-java”. And, like Agents, the best way to find the latest library version and documentation is to find it on GitHub.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/Glossary2.png')} alt="Documentation about Clients on GitHub" />

Unlike agents, Clients are not self-sufficient. They provide convenient way to call ReportPortal API, but you must do this in your code. It is also your part of responsibility which metadata you send to ReportPortal if you decided to use a Client.

## Logger

Loggers are special type of libraries which a responsible for saving logs into ReportPortal. They can be attached to logging framework or a test tool, E.G. Selenide, to report steps and log records. Basically, you can report logs yourself with certain methods inside Clients, but Loggers do this for you.

Here is an example of how OkHttp3 logger works:

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/Glossary3.png')} alt="How OkHttp3 logger works" />

Like agents and clients, loggers have their own naming pattern: logger-&#123; language }-&#123; framework / tool }.

## Plugin

Plugins are co-applications which add additional functionality to ReportPortal. We have separate examples and development guide for our users. You are free to extend our test automation results dashboard as you wish, we don’t limit or obligate our users with any clauses. ReportPortal provides some plugins for free like Jira and Rally integrations but also has closed plugins, which we provide only with our paid plans, e.g., “Quality Gates” plugin:

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/Glossary4.png')} alt="Quality Gates plugin in our test reporting tool" />

## Launch

The first reporting-related word in our list. The Launch is a collection of all reported tests which were run at single test execution. Launches allows you to monitor your application-under-test state. The idea is that you take certain number of tests and test suites and run them periodically on different environments and our widgets draws you the picture of your application health from launch to launch. You are not obligated to stop adding new test reports into a launch after the launch finish, you are free to add more data. Or, for example, you can create several Launches and merge them into one. Or run your tests in a distributed way and report everything into a single Launch. The key concept here is that Launch is the biggest data point on our widgets, everything else is up to you.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/Glossary5.png')} alt="Example of Launches in our test automation results dashboard" />

## Suite

For the convenience of locating and navigating data, you can put your tests into test suites. Features, Stories, Suites, Test Classes, Test (sic!), etc., they are all Suites from ReportPortal view, just with different names. Suites are hierarchical, to put one Suite inside another you should specify Parent Suite UUID. Also, as a limitation, child Suite and Items start time should not be earlier than Parent Suite start time due to Database limitations, please keep that in mind.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/Glossary6.png')} alt="Example of Suites in our real time dashboard open source" />

## Step

Step is the only entity with statistics in our centralized test automation tool. Every time you report a step, ReportPortal adds 1 to test count and every time a Step fails it counts it as a test failure.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/Glossary7.png')} alt="Example of Steps in our test automation dashboard" />

## Nested step

Nested steps are like suites but located as child step elements. They are like containers for test logs and represented as dropdown lists inside Log View. On the screen below Nested step is the first entity.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/Glossary3.png')} alt="Example of Nested step in our centralized test automation tool" />

## Log

Logs are textual data necessary for debugging and problem solving. Our Analyzer uses them in the same way. Logs should be neat and informative, but not too much verbose. Tons of logs usually the same problem as their full absence.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/Glossary8.png')} alt="Example of Logs in our continuous testing platform" />

## Test Case ID

The ID which is used along with Steps. It is unique signature of tests by which we build test history. In general, you don’t need to manipulate these IDs, since every agent usually generates them with Code reference and parameters. But if you want to customize your history view this is the first point where to look. Agents usually generate Test Case IDs based on code reference and have a way to customize it.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/Glossary9.png')} alt="Test Case ID scheme on ReportPortal" />

## Before Method

A lifecycle hook or method provided by test frameworks that is executed before a test case or test suite starts. In the context of ReportPortal, it is used to initialize test data, set up configurations, or send a "start test" event to ReportPortal to log the beginning of a test execution.

## After Method

A lifecycle hook or method provided by test frameworks that is executed after a test case or test suite finishes. In the context of ReportPortal, it is used to clean up resources, log results, or send a "finish test" event to ReportPortal to log the completion of a test execution along with its status (e.g., passed, failed, skipped).

Commit message:

Release 25.2 (#1044)
* EPMRPP-104013 || Turn ON/OFF the Important launches functionality

* EPMRPP-105695 || Export launches reports with attachments

* EPMRPP-106483 || Add Release notes 25.1.6

* Revert release notes before Release

* EPMRPP-109504 || Test Execution Feature (#1040)

* EPMRPP-109504 || Test Execution Feature

* EPMRPP-109504 || Test Execution Feature

---------

Co-authored-by: Yuliya_Prihodko <Yuliya_Prihodko@epam.com>

* EPMRPP-109506 || Log level customization (#1041)

* EPMRPP-109506 || Log level customization

* EPMRPP-109506 || Log level customization

* EPMRPP-109506 || Log level customization

---------

Co-authored-by: Yuliya_Prihodko <Yuliya_Prihodko@epam.com>
Co-authored-by: maria-hambardzumian <164881199+maria-hambardzumian@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Co-authored-by: Ilya <ilya_hancharyk@epam.com>
Co-authored-by: Yuliya Prihodko <107035036+pressayuliya@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Yuliya_Prihodko <Yuliya_Prihodko@epam.com>
Co-authored-by: raikbitters <raikbitters@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: maria-hambardzumian <maria_hambardzumyan@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Alla Prischepa <38905429+allaprischepa@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/glossary/index.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 23
sidebar_label: Glossary
description: Explore ReportPortal terminology like agents, clients, loggers, launches, and widgets to understand how test reporting and analysis work across the platform.
---

# Glossary

## Agent

Agents are direct test framework integrations. If you integrate your tests with an agent then you don’t need to do anything, except adding properties and test metadata. Basically, each agent has the same naming convention: agent-&#123; language }-&#123; framework }. E.G. “agent-python-pytest”. The best way to see which agents we do have and check out the latest documentation for them is to go on ReportPortal organization page on GitHub and start searching.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/Glossary1.png')} alt="Documentation about Agents on GitHub" />

Each agent project contains a README with the latest installation instructions. Agent pages usually are being updated along with the agent code. If you found any issue with the documentation you are free to correct it with a PR or post an issue.

Agents are complete and self-sufficient integrations, all you need is to provide correct properties and optionally test metadata (like attributes and steps).

## Client

Clients are basically interfaces for our Rest API, like agents they have its naming convention: client-&#123; language }. E.G. “client-java”. And, like Agents, the best way to find the latest library version and documentation is to find it on GitHub.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/Glossary2.png')} alt="Documentation about Clients on GitHub" />

Unlike agents, Clients are not self-sufficient. They provide convenient way to call ReportPortal API, but you must do this in your code. It is also your part of responsibility which metadata you send to ReportPortal if you decided to use a Client.

## Logger

Loggers are special type of libraries which a responsible for saving logs into ReportPortal. They can be attached to logging framework or a test tool, E.G. Selenide, to report steps and log records. Basically, you can report logs yourself with certain methods inside Clients, but Loggers do this for you.

Here is an example of how OkHttp3 logger works:

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/Glossary3.png')} alt="How OkHttp3 logger works" />

Like agents and clients, loggers have their own naming pattern: logger-&#123; language }-&#123; framework / tool }.

## Plugin

Plugins are co-applications which add additional functionality to ReportPortal. We have separate examples and development guide for our users. You are free to extend our test automation results dashboard as you wish, we don’t limit or obligate our users with any clauses. ReportPortal provides some plugins for free like Jira and Rally integrations but also has closed plugins, which we provide only with our paid plans, e.g., “Quality Gates” plugin:

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/Glossary4.png')} alt="Quality Gates plugin in our test reporting tool" />

## Launch

The first reporting-related word in our list. The Launch is a collection of all reported tests which were run at single test execution. Launches allows you to monitor your application-under-test state. The idea is that you take certain number of tests and test suites and run them periodically on different environments and our widgets draws you the picture of your application health from launch to launch. You are not obligated to stop adding new test reports into a launch after the launch finish, you are free to add more data. Or, for example, you can create several Launches and merge them into one. Or run your tests in a distributed way and report everything into a single Launch. The key concept here is that Launch is the biggest data point on our widgets, everything else is up to you.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/Glossary5.png')} alt="Example of Launches in our test automation results dashboard" />

## Suite

For the convenience of locating and navigating data, you can put your tests into test suites. Features, Stories, Suites, Test Classes, Test (sic!), etc., they are all Suites from ReportPortal view, just with different names. Suites are hierarchical, to put one Suite inside another you should specify Parent Suite UUID. Also, as a limitation, child Suite and Items start time should not be earlier than Parent Suite start time due to Database limitations, please keep that in mind.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/Glossary6.png')} alt="Example of Suites in our real time dashboard open source" />

## Step

Step is the only entity with statistics in our centralized test automation tool. Every time you report a step, ReportPortal adds 1 to test count and every time a Step fails it counts it as a test failure.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/Glossary7.png')} alt="Example of Steps in our test automation dashboard" />

## Nested step

Nested steps are like suites but located as child step elements. They are like containers for test logs and represented as dropdown lists inside Log View. On the screen below Nested step is the first entity.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/Glossary3.png')} alt="Example of Nested step in our centralized test automation tool" />

## Log

Logs are textual data necessary for debugging and problem solving. Our Analyzer uses them in the same way. Logs should be neat and informative, but not too much verbose. Tons of logs usually the same problem as their full absence.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/Glossary8.png')} alt="Example of Logs in our continuous testing platform" />

## Test Case ID

The ID which is used along with Steps. It is unique signature of tests by which we build test history. In general, you don’t need to manipulate these IDs, since every agent usually generates them with Code reference and parameters. But if you want to customize your history view this is the first point where to look. Agents usually generate Test Case IDs based on code reference and have a way to customize it.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/Glossary9.png')} alt="Test Case ID scheme on ReportPortal" />

## Before Method

A lifecycle hook or method provided by test frameworks that is executed before a test case or test suite starts. In the context of ReportPortal, it is used to initialize test data, set up configurations, or send a "start test" event to ReportPortal to log the beginning of a test execution.

## After Method

A lifecycle hook or method provided by test frameworks that is executed after a test case or test suite finishes. In the context of ReportPortal, it is used to clean up resources, log results, or send a "finish test" event to ReportPortal to log the completion of a test execution along with its status (e.g., passed, failed, skipped).

## Test Executions

Test Executions is a unified space in ReportPortal where you can view and analyze all executed tests from multiple launches in one convenient, flat view. It lets you quickly find and review any test without navigating through launch hierarchies, making it easier to understand what passed, failed, or needs attention. With simple filtering and customizable columns, Test Executions help teams work faster, spot issues sooner, and keep testing results organized — even when dealing with many automated runs.
