src/md/src/WorkWithReports/InvestigationOfFailure.md, before:

##Investigation of failure

### Defect types and comments

Report Portal provide possibility to investigate the results of your runs. Invesitation includes set the 
appropriate defect type of failed items, post defect for them or load the id of defect that is already available
in the bug tracking system. 

Using defect editor you can choose the real reason of your fail and provide the comment for this fail.

When a defect is found in a test, it should be investigated and proper defect type should be assigned to it, 
in order to have accurate statistics on test runs. You will be able to change a defect type for a test and 
mark it as Product Bug/Automation Bug/System Issue/No Defect at any time.

Permission: All users on the project despite their role.

To change a defect type, perform the following steps:

1. Login into Report Portal instance.

2. Navigate to the Step level of the launch.

3. Click on the defect label in the "Defect Type" column or small pencil icon.

4. 'EDIT DEFECT TYPE' modal window will appears.

5. A proper defect type can be selected from the Defect type drop-down . Also, you
can add a comment here, which should be not more than 255 symbols long. Mark up can be used to make the comment 
more beautiful, to add clickable links and images.

The available defect types are described below:

>   *To investigate* - means that no investigation was performed on this defect
>   yet.

>   *Product bug* (default and custom) - defect was investigated and production bug found as a
>   cause for this test failure.

>   *Automation bug* (default and custom) - defect was investigated and automation test is not
>   correct.

>   *System issue* (default and custom) - defect was investigated and it turns out that system-level
>   issue, like app crash, caused test to fail.

>   *No defect* (default and custom) - defect was investigated and defined, that its not a defect.



After clicking on the tick button, the comment and the defect type will be saved for a selected item.

Report Portal allows to edit defects in bulk.

To edit the defect type and comment for some item simultaniously, perform the next steps:

1. Login into Report Portal instance

2. Navigate to the Step level of the launch.

3. Select the required test items by click on their checkboxes

4. Open 'Actions' list

5. Click "Edit Defects" option

6. Select an appropriate defect type and a comment (if necessary) and save it.

>**Note:**
'Replace comments' option is selected by default. So, the same comment will be added to all items.
Initial comments are removed in case you change defect type only ('Comments' is not filled in) via bulk operation.


Also you can change a defect type at the logs level.

[ ![Image](Images/userGuide/analyzeLaunches/analyze_launches.png) ](https://youtu.be/Nf60EPDX3Co)


### Post bug to Bug Tracking System

Report Portal allows to connect JIRA or RALLY systems and post bug to them.

Before post a bug, make sure that the bug tracking systems is connected to the
project on the project settings page. To check it, plese go to [Integration with Bug Tracking
System](/docs/Getting started/Integration with Bug Tracking Systems).

In case bug tracking system is not connected, "Post bug" button will be disabled.

Permissions: The functionality is available for all users and does not depend on their project role.

**POST BUG TO JIRA**

In order to post a bug to JIRA, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to the "Launches" page.

2. Drill down to the Step or Log level of any failed item.

3. Click "Post Bug" button.

4. Post bug pop-up form appears with selected set of fields: required (with asterisk mark) and optional; 
include data and credentials

5. Fill in the fields with correct information

6. Select include data options or leave the default.

7. Fill in credentials of your JIRA account and click 'Post' button

8. The bug will be posted to the JIRA and link to the bug will be displayed on the
Step and Log levels of the failed item.

9. Hover the mouse over the bug and you will see issue status and summary on
tool-tip.
 
10. To view data of just submitted bug in JIRA, click the ticket. All selected data is present in bug tracking system.
Including logs, attachments and comments.

11. To get to item in Report Portal for which the bug was posted, click back link 'Link to defect'. 

Sometimes it is necessary to add one bug to some items via bulk operation. To do this:

1. Go to Step level of the launch

2. Select some failed items by click on their checkboxes

3. Expand 'Actions' list on the top of the page

4. Click 'Post Bug' option

5. Fill in the fields with correct information

6. Fill in credentials of your JIRA account and click 'Post' button

7. One ticket with bug is added to JIRA as for single bug posting. The identifier of JIRA ticket is added to all selected items. 
Keep in mind that data of Report Portal items are excluded in a bulk posting.

8. Hover the mouse over the bug and you will see issue status and summary on tool-tip.

[ ![Image](Images/userGuide/postBugToBTS/postBugJira.png) ](https://youtu.be/fuk0kVRN7oI)

>**Note:**
>in case of bulk operation Include data option with be missed in Post Bug pop up. So, logs, comments and attachments will not
>be present in JIRA ticket.


**POST BUG TO RALLY**

In order to post bug to RALLY, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to the "Launches" page.

2. Drill down to the Step or Log level of any failed issue.

3. Click "Defect editor" link or pencil icon in the "Defect Type" column. 

4. You will see the defect editor block. Click "Post Bug" icon from the editor header.

5. Post bug pop-up form should appear.

6. Fill in the form and click "Submit" button.

7. The bug will be posted to the RALLY and link to the bug will be displayed on the Step and log levels of the failed item.

Hover the mouse over the bug and you will see issue status and summary on
tool-tip.

Also you can post bug on Log level.


### Add link of existed defect.

This functionality allows to attached the ticket ID of alredy posted defect to test item in Report Portal

Depends on used bug tracking system the procedure of adding link could be different.

**ADD LINK TO JIRA ISSUE**

To add link to existing JIRA issue to Report Portal, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to the "Launches" page.

2. Drill down to the Step or Log lavel of any failed item.

3. Click "Defect editor" link or pencil icon in the "Defect Type" column. You
    will see the defect editor block. Click "Load Bug" icon from the editor
    header.

4. Load bug popup form should appear.

5. Select JIRA project, input link to issue and issue ID, add more issues (if
    need).

6. Click "Add" button. The link to the bug will be shown on the
    Step and Log levels of the failed item.

>**Note:**  
Project name in JIRA will be missing, if only one JIRA is configured
on the current project.

Also you can add link to the JIRA issue on Log level.

[ ![Image](Images/userGuide/addLinkToExistingBug/addLinkToExistingBugJira.png) ](https://youtu.be/nMiiO_ZkDGk)


**ADD LINK TO RALLY ISSUE**

To add link to existing RALLY issue to Report Portal, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to the "Launches" page.

2. Drill down to the Step or Log level to any failed item.

3. Click "Defect editor" link or pencil icon in the "Defect Type" column. You
    will see the defect editor block. Click "Load Bug" icon from the editor
    header.

4. Load bug popup form should appear.

5. Go to the RALLY and copy link to issue.

9. Input link to issue and issue ID, add more issues (if need).

7. Click "Add" button. The link to the bug will be shown on the
    Step and Log levels of the failed item.

Also you can add link to the RALLY issue on Log level.

To get update on defect's status, bring the cursor to the ticket. The tooltip will appear with actual information.

Commit message:

Update info about link and unlink

src/md/src/WorkWithReports/InvestigationOfFailure.md, after:

##Investigation of failure

### Defect types and comments

Report Portal provide possibility to investigate the results of your runs. Invesitation includes set the 
appropriate defect type of failed items, post defect for them or link the id of defect that is already available
in the bug tracking system. 

Using defect editor you can choose the real reason of your fail and provide the comment for this fail.

When a defect is found in a test, it should be investigated and proper defect type should be assigned to it, 
in order to have accurate statistics on test runs. You will be able to change a defect type for a test and 
mark it as Product Bug/Automation Bug/System Issue/No Defect at any time.

Permission: All users on the project despite their role.

To change a defect type, perform the following steps:

1. Login into Report Portal instance.

2. Navigate to the Step level of the launch.

3. Click on the defect label in the "Defect Type" column or small pencil icon.

4. 'EDIT DEFECT TYPE' modal window will appears.

5. A proper defect type can be selected from the Defect type drop-down . Also, you
can add a comment here, which should be not more than 255 symbols long. Mark up can be used to make the comment 
more beautiful, to add clickable links and images.

The available defect types are described below:

>   *To investigate* - means that no investigation was performed on this defect
>   yet.

>   *Product bug* (default and custom) - defect was investigated and production bug found as a
>   cause for this test failure.

>   *Automation bug* (default and custom) - defect was investigated and automation test is not
>   correct.

>   *System issue* (default and custom) - defect was investigated and it turns out that system-level
>   issue, like app crash, caused test to fail.

>   *No defect* (default and custom) - defect was investigated and defined, that its not a defect.



After clicking on the tick button, the comment and the defect type will be saved for a selected item.

Report Portal allows to edit defects in bulk.

To edit the defect type and comment for some item simultaniously, perform the next steps:

1. Login into Report Portal instance

2. Navigate to the Step level of the launch.

3. Select the required test items by click on their checkboxes

4. Open 'Actions' list

5. Click "Edit Defects" option

6. Select an appropriate defect type and a comment (if necessary) and save it.

>**Note:**
'Replace comments' option is selected by default. So, the same comment will be added to all items.
Initial comments are removed in case you change defect type only ('Comments' is not filled in) via bulk operation.


Also you can change a defect type at the logs level.

[ ![Image](Images/userGuide/analyzeLaunches/analyze_launches.png) ](https://youtu.be/Nf60EPDX3Co)


### Post bug to Bug Tracking System

Report Portal allows to connect JIRA or RALLY systems and post bug to them.

Before post a bug, make sure that the bug tracking systems is connected to the
project on the project settings page. To check it, plese go to [Integration with Bug Tracking
System](/docs/Getting started/Integration with Bug Tracking Systems).

In case bug tracking system is not connected, "Post bug" button will be disabled.

Permissions: The functionality is available for all users and does not depend on their project role.

**POST BUG TO JIRA**

In order to post a bug to JIRA, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to the "Launches" page.

2. Drill down to the Step or Log level of any failed item.

3. Click "Post Bug" button.

4. Post bug pop-up form appears with selected set of fields: required (with asterisk mark) and optional; 
include data and credentials

5. Fill in the fields with correct information

6. Select include data options or leave the default.

7. Fill in credentials of your JIRA account and click 'Post' button

8. The bug will be posted to the JIRA and link to the bug will be displayed on the
Step and Log levels of the failed item.

9. Hover the mouse over the bug and you will see issue status and summary on
tool-tip.
 
10. To view data of just submitted bug in JIRA, click the ticket. All selected data is present in bug tracking system.
Including logs, attachments and comments.

11. To get to item in Report Portal for which the bug was posted, click back link 'Link to defect'. 

Sometimes it is necessary to add one bug to some items via bulk operation. To do this:

1. Go to Step level of the launch

2. Select some failed items by click on their checkboxes

3. Expand 'Actions' list on the top of the page

4. Click 'Post Bug' option

5. Fill in the fields with correct information

6. Fill in credentials of your JIRA account and click 'Post' button

7. One ticket with bug is added to JIRA as for single bug posting. The identifier of JIRA ticket is added to all selected items. 
Keep in mind that data of Report Portal items are excluded in a bulk posting.

8. Hover the mouse over the bug and you will see issue status and summary on tool-tip.

[ ![Image](Images/userGuide/postBugToBTS/postBugJira.png) ](https://youtu.be/fuk0kVRN7oI)

>**Note:**
>in case of bulk operation Include data option with be missed in Post Bug pop up. So, logs, comments and attachments will not
>be present in JIRA ticket.


**POST BUG TO RALLY**

In order to post bug to RALLY, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to the "Launches" page.

2. Drill down to the Step or Log level of any failed issue.

3. Click "Defect editor" link or pencil icon in the "Defect Type" column. 

4. You will see the defect editor block. Click "Post Bug" icon from the editor header.

5. Post bug pop-up form should appear.

6. Fill in the form and click "Submit" button.

7. The bug will be posted to the RALLY and link to the bug will be displayed on the Step and log levels of the failed item.

Hover the mouse over the bug and you will see issue status and summary on
tool-tip.

Also you can post bug on Log level.


### Add link of existed defect.

This functionality allows to attached the ticket ID of alredy posted defect to test item in Report Portal

Depends on used bug tracking system the procedure of adding link could be different.

**ADD LINK TO JIRA ISSUE**

To add link to existing JIRA issue to Report Portal, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to the "Launches" page.

2. Drill down to the Step or Log level of any failed item.

3. Click "Defect editor" link or pencil icon in the "Defect Type" column. You
    will see the defect editor block. Click on arrow on "Save" button" and choose "Save and Link issue".

4. Link issue popup form should appear.

5. Select JIRA project, input link to issue and issue ID, add more issues (if
    need).

6. Click "Add" button. The link to the bug will be shown on the
    Step and Log levels of the failed item.
    
You have several possibilities to add link to JIRA:
* via defect editor on Step and Log view;
* via Action menu on Step level (Actions > Link issue);
* via "Link issue" on Log level;

>**Note:**  
Project name in JIRA will be missing, if only one JIRA is configured
on the current project.

[ ![Image](Images/userGuide/addLinkToExistingBug/addLinkToExistingBugJira.png) ](https://youtu.be/sKp632zgYNk)


**ADD LINK TO RALLY ISSUE**

To add link to existing RALLY issue to Report Portal, perform the following steps:

1. Navigate to the "Launches" page.

2. Drill down to the Step or Log level to any failed item.

3. Click "Defect editor" link or penciClick on arrow on "Save" button" and choose "Save and Link issue".

4. Link issue popup form should appear.

5. Go to the RALLY and copy link to issue.

9. Input link to issue and issue ID, add more issues (if need).

7. Click "Add" button. The link to the bug will be shown on the
    Step and Log levels of the failed item.

You have several possibilities to add link to RALLY:
* via defect editor on Step and Log view;
* via Action menu on Step level (Actions > Link issue);
* via "Link issue" on Log level;

To get update on defect's status, bring the cursor to the ticket. The tooltip will appear with actual information.

If you want to remove a link to BTS, you can click a cross on a link label or unlink issue from Defect Editor. For bulk unlink operation use Actions Menu on Step Level.
