docs/user-role-guides/index.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 19
sidebar_label: User role guides
---

# User role guides
Here are the links to User Guide sections divided by ReportPortal User roles.

## Administrator
[Installation steps](/installation-steps)  
[Tutorial](/tutorial)  
[User account](/user-account)  
[Log data in ReportPortal](/log-data-in-reportportal)  
[Logging Integration]( /configuration/IntegrationViaPlugin)  
[Saved searches (Filters)](/saved-searches-filters)   
[Dashboards and Widgets](/dashboards-and-widgets)  
[Admin Panel](/admin-panel)  
[Tips and tricks](/issues-troubleshooting)  

## Project Manager
[Tutorial](/tutorial)    
[Admin Panel](/admin-panel)   
[Work with reports](/work-with-reports)  
[Saved searches (Filters)](/saved-searches-filters)    
[Dashboards and Widgets](/dashboards-and-widgets)  
[User account](/user-account)  

## Member
[Work with reports](/work-with-reports)  
[Analysis](/analysis)  
[Saved searches (Filters)](/saved-searches-filters)    
[Dashboards and Widgets](/dashboards-and-widgets)  
[User account](/user-account)  
[Log data in ReportPortal](/log-data-in-reportportal)  
[Logging Integration](/configuration/IntegrationViaPlugin)  

## Operator
[Work with reports](/work-with-reports)  
[Analysis](/analysis)  
[Saved searches (Filters)](/saved-searches-filters)  
[Dashboards and Widgets](/dashboards-and-widgets)  
[User account](/user-account)  
[See list of project members](/configuration/UserManagement)

## Customer
[Work with reports](/work-with-reports)  
[Analysis](/analysis)  
[Saved searches (Filters)](/saved-searches-filters)   
[Dashboards and Widgets](/dashboards-and-widgets)  
[User account](/user-account)

Commit message:

EPMRPP-95930 || Improving pages with a low word count (#823)
* EPMRPP-95930 || Improving pages with a low word count

* EPMRPP-95930 || Improving pages with a low word count

* EPMRPP-95930 || Improving pages with a low word count

---------

Co-authored-by: Yuliya_Prihodko <Yuliya_Prihodko@epam.com>

docs/user-role-guides/index.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 19
sidebar_label: User role guides
---

# User role guides

All accounts in ReportPortal are divided into two types according to **instance-level classification**:

- Administrator
- Regular user

In addition, each account in ReportPortal has a specific role on a project according to **project-level classification**:

- Project Manager
- Member
- Operator
- Customer

An account with the "Administrator" type has permission to configure the entire instance and access all projects.

You can check the permissions for each other role on the Project Members page.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/PermissionMap.png')} alt="Permission map in our test automation metrics dashboard" />

## Administrator
[Installation steps](/installation-steps)  
[Tutorial](/tutorial)  
[User account](/user-account)  
[Log data in ReportPortal](/log-data-in-reportportal)  
[Logging Integration]( /configuration/IntegrationViaPlugin)  
[Saved searches (Filters)](/saved-searches-filters)   
[Dashboards and Widgets](/dashboards-and-widgets)  
[Admin Panel](/admin-panel)  
[Tips and tricks](/issues-troubleshooting)  

## Project Manager
[Tutorial](/tutorial)    
[Admin Panel](/admin-panel)   
[Work with reports](/work-with-reports)  
[Saved searches (Filters)](/saved-searches-filters)    
[Dashboards and Widgets](/dashboards-and-widgets)  
[User account](/user-account)  

## Member
[Work with reports](/work-with-reports)  
[Analysis](/analysis)  
[Saved searches (Filters)](/saved-searches-filters)    
[Dashboards and Widgets](/dashboards-and-widgets)  
[User account](/user-account)  
[Log data in ReportPortal](/log-data-in-reportportal)  
[Logging Integration](/configuration/IntegrationViaPlugin)  

## Operator
[Work with reports](/work-with-reports)  
[Analysis](/analysis)  
[Saved searches (Filters)](/saved-searches-filters)  
[Dashboards and Widgets](/dashboards-and-widgets)  
[User account](/user-account)  
[See list of project members](/configuration/UserManagement)

## Customer
[Work with reports](/work-with-reports)  
[Analysis](/analysis)  
[Saved searches (Filters)](/saved-searches-filters)   
[Dashboards and Widgets](/dashboards-and-widgets)  
[User account](/user-account)
