docs/installation-steps/DeployWithDockerOnLinuxMac.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Deploy with Docker on Linux/Mac
description: Make your test automation reporting more portable. Reduce the risk of configuration issues with your test reporting tool using Docker.
---

# Deploy with Docker on Linux/Mac

ReportPortal can be easily deployed using Docker Compose.

## Install Docker

Docker is supported by all major Linux distributions, MacOS and Windows.

* [Download](https://www.docker.com/get-started) Docker
* [Download](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) Docker Compose

> ⚠️ Recomended change resources limits at least **2** CPU **5** GB RAM for Docker Desktop: [MAC](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/settings/mac/#advanced) | [Windows](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/settings/windows/#advanced) | [Linux](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/settings/linux/#advanced)


## Deploy ReportPortal with Docker

1. Download the latest ReportPortal Docker Compose file from [here](<https://github.com/reportportal/reportportal/blob/master/docker-compose.yml>). You can make it by run the following command:

```bash
curl -LO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/reportportal/reportportal/master/docker-compose.yml
  ```

2. Make the ElasticSearch configuration prerequisites for the analyzer service

    * OPTIONAL: Set {vm.max_map_count} kernel setting before ReportPortal deploying with the following [Commands](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.10/docker.html#docker-cli-run-prod-mode)
    * Give right permissions to ElasticSearch data folder using the following commands:

```bash
mkdir -p data/elasticsearch
chmod 777 data/elasticsearch
chgrp 1000 data/elasticsearch
```

For more details about ElasticSearch visit ElasticSearch [guide](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.10/docker.html#_notes_for_production_use_and_defaults)

> OPTIONAL
>
> **PostgreSQL Performance Tuning**
>
> Depends on your hardware configuration and parameters of your system, you can additionally optimize your PostgreSQL performance by adding the following parameters to "command" option in the Docker compose file:
>
> ```bash
>  -c effective_io_concurrency=
>  -c shared_buffers=
>  -c max_connections=
>  -c effective_cache_size=
>  -c maintenance_work_mem=
>  -c random_page_cost=
>  -c seq_page_cost= 
>  -c min_wal_size= 
>  -c max_wal_size=
>  -c max_worker_processes=
>  -c max_parallel_workers_per_gather=
>``` 
>
> Please choose set the values of these variables that are right for your system.
>
> You can also change PostgreSQL host by passing a new value to POSTGRES_SERVER environment [variable](./AdditionalConfigurationParameters).

4. Start the application using the following command:

```bash
docker-compose -p reportportal up -d --force-recreate
``` 
Where:
- **-p reportportal** adds project prefix 'reportportal' to all containers
- **up** creates and starts containers
- **-d** daemon mode
- **--force-recreate** Re-creates containers if there any

Useful commands:
- **docker-compose logs** shows logs from all containers
- **docker logs &lt;container_name&gt;** shows logs from selected container
- **docker ps -a | grep "reportportal_" | awk '{print $1}' | xargs docker rm -f** Deletes all ReportPortal containers
- **docker-compose down**


5. Open your web-browser with an IP address of the deployed environment at port **8080**

Use the following **login\pass** to access:
* Default User: `default\1q2w3e`
* Administrator: `superadmin\erebus`

> ⚠️ Please change the admin password for better security

Commit message:

EPMRPP-85305 || Update installation documentation about Admin Password

docs/installation-steps/DeployWithDockerOnLinuxMac.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: Deploy with Docker on Linux/Mac
description: Make your test automation reporting more portable. Reduce the risk of configuration issues with your test reporting tool using Docker.
---

# Deploy with Docker on Linux/Mac

ReportPortal can be easily deployed using Docker Compose.

## Install Docker

Docker is supported by all major Linux distributions, MacOS and Windows.

* [Download](https://www.docker.com/get-started) Docker
* [Download](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) Docker Compose

> ⚠️ Recomended change resources limits at least **2** CPU **5** GB RAM for Docker Desktop: [MAC](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/settings/mac/#advanced) | [Windows](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/settings/windows/#advanced) | [Linux](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/settings/linux/#advanced)


## Deploy ReportPortal with Docker

1. Download the latest ReportPortal Docker Compose file from [here](<https://github.com/reportportal/reportportal/blob/master/docker-compose.yml>). You can make it by run the following command:

```bash
curl -LO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/reportportal/reportportal/master/docker-compose.yml
  ```

2. Make the ElasticSearch configuration prerequisites for the analyzer service

    * OPTIONAL: Set {vm.max_map_count} kernel setting before ReportPortal deploying with the following [Commands](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.10/docker.html#docker-cli-run-prod-mode)
    * Give right permissions to ElasticSearch data folder using the following commands:

```bash
mkdir -p data/elasticsearch
chmod 777 data/elasticsearch
chgrp 1000 data/elasticsearch
```

For more details about ElasticSearch visit ElasticSearch [guide](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elasticsearch/reference/7.10/docker.html#_notes_for_production_use_and_defaults)

> OPTIONAL
>
> **PostgreSQL Performance Tuning**
>
> Depends on your hardware configuration and parameters of your system, you can additionally optimize your PostgreSQL performance by adding the following parameters to "command" option in the Docker compose file:
>
> ```bash
>  -c effective_io_concurrency=
>  -c shared_buffers=
>  -c max_connections=
>  -c effective_cache_size=
>  -c maintenance_work_mem=
>  -c random_page_cost=
>  -c seq_page_cost= 
>  -c min_wal_size= 
>  -c max_wal_size=
>  -c max_worker_processes=
>  -c max_parallel_workers_per_gather=
>``` 
>
> Please choose set the values of these variables that are right for your system.
>
> You can also change PostgreSQL host by passing a new value to POSTGRES_SERVER environment [variable](./AdditionalConfigurationParameters).

3. Ensure you override the UAT Service environment variable RP_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD

```bash
version: '2.4'
services:

  uat:
   environment:
     RP_INITIAL_ADMIN_PASSWORD: "My_Strong_Password!"
``` 

We've modified the current approach: during the initial installation and the first login of the SuperAdmin, they will need to create a unique initial password, different from the default password provided in the ReportPortal installation documentation. Failure to do so will prevent the Auth service from starting.

4. Start the application using the following command:

```bash
docker-compose -p reportportal up -d --force-recreate
``` 
Where:
- **-p reportportal** adds project prefix 'reportportal' to all containers
- **up** creates and starts containers
- **-d** daemon mode
- **--force-recreate** Re-creates containers if there any

Useful commands:
- **docker-compose logs** shows logs from all containers
- **docker logs &lt;container_name&gt;** shows logs from selected container
- **docker ps -a | grep "reportportal_" | awk '{print $1}' | xargs docker rm -f** Deletes all ReportPortal containers
- **docker-compose down**


5. Open your web-browser with an IP address of the deployed environment at port **8080**

Use the following **login\pass** to access:
* Default User: `default\1q2w3e`
* Administrator: `superadmin\erebus`

> ⚠️ Please change the admin password for better security
