docs/configuration/UserManagement.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: User management
---

# User management

After [you have created a project](/admin-panel/AllProjectsPage#create-projects), you can invite new members to it.

**Permissions:**<br />
User with `ADMINISTRATOR` role and users with project role `PROJECT_MANAGER`.

### Invite user on a project

To invite a user on the "Project Members" page, perform the following steps:

1. Login into ReportPortal instance as with the `PROJECT_MANAGER` project role.
2. Navigate to the "Project Members" page on the left menu.
3. Click the "Invite User" tab.
4. Enter the email address of the user in case he/she is not present in the ReportPortal database or enter his/her login name.
5. In case the user is already available in the ReportPortal, his/her name will appear in the suggestion list.
If not, the Admin should enter the correct email address.
6. Select an appropriate role.
7. Then click 'Invite'.
8. In case the user is already available in ReportPortal s/he will be assigned to the project
If not, the letter with an invitation link will be sent to the user email address.
9. The user will receive an email with the link to the registration.
When the user clicks the link, he/she will see a registration form.
10. The user needs to fill in the registration form and click the "Register"
button to complete the registration.
11. The user will be assigned to the project that the invitation was sent from, and to "Personal Project" with the PROJECT
 MANAGER project role.

<MediaViewer src="https://youtu.be/VOk80XZHpWc" alt="Invite User From Project Members Page" type="video" />

### Project role

Every user is given a specific Project role within a specific project.

Depends on the role, the user is able or not able to perform some actions. For more details, please see the "Permissions map".

There are 4 possible Project roles in ReportPortal:

- `PROJECT MANAGER`
- `MEMBER`
- `OPERATOR`
- `CUSTOMER`

:::note
The `ADMINISTRATOR` has all privileges on the project.
:::

### Edit project role

To edit the project role, perform the following steps:

1. Login into the ReportPortal as a user with `PROJECT_MANAGER` project role.
2. Navigate to the "Project Members" page on the left menu.
3. Select a new value from the "Project Role" drop-down for the user. - The new project role will be automatically saved.

<MediaViewer src="https://youtu.be/DF38BbE5vws" alt="Edit Project Role From Project Members Page" type="video" />

### Unassign user from the project

Depending on the project needs the assignment could be removed.
To unassign the assignment for the user on the project, perform the following steps:

1. Login into the ReportPortal as a user with `PROJECT_MANAGER` project role.
2. Navigate to the "Project Members" page on the left menu.
3. Find the required member.
4. Click the 'Unassign' button for the user.
5. Confirm the action in the popup.
6. The user will be unassigned from the current project but will stay in the system.


:::note
Invite user, Assign/Unassign internal user to/from the project, change user's role on a project action can be done for a user
with a similar and lower role only.
:::

:::important
Administrator can also [add users to the project](/admin-panel/AllUsersPage).
:::

Commit message:

EPMRPP-96968 || Add Server Settings documentation (#843)
Co-authored-by: Yuliya_Prihodko <Yuliya_Prihodko@epam.com>

docs/configuration/UserManagement.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 3
sidebar_label: User management
---

# User management

After [you have created a project](/admin-panel/AllProjectsPage#create-projects), you can invite new members to it.

**Permissions:**<br />
User with `ADMINISTRATOR` role and users with project role `PROJECT_MANAGER`.

### Invite user on a project

:::info
Depending on the toggle state in [Server Settings](/admin-panel/ServerSettings), the ability to manually invite external users to ReportPortal can be disabled.
:::

To invite a user on the "Project Members" page, perform the following steps:

1. Login into ReportPortal instance as with the `PROJECT_MANAGER` project role.
2. Navigate to the "Project Members" page on the left menu.
3. Click the "Invite User" tab.
4. Enter the email address of the user in case he/she is not present in the ReportPortal database or enter his/her login name.
5. In case the user is already available in the ReportPortal, his/her name will appear in the suggestion list.
If not, the Admin should enter the correct email address.
6. Select an appropriate role.
7. Then click 'Invite'.
8. In case the user is already available in ReportPortal s/he will be assigned to the project
If not, the letter with an invitation link will be sent to the user email address.
9. The user will receive an email with the link to the registration.
When the user clicks the link, he/she will see a registration form.
10. The user needs to fill in the registration form and click the "Register"
button to complete the registration.
11. The user will be assigned to the project that the invitation was sent from, and to "Personal Project" with the PROJECT
 MANAGER project role.

<MediaViewer src="https://youtu.be/VOk80XZHpWc" alt="Invite User From Project Members Page" type="video" />

### Project role

Every user is given a specific Project role within a specific project.

Depends on the role, the user is able or not able to perform some actions. For more details, please see the "Permissions map".

There are 4 possible Project roles in ReportPortal:

- `PROJECT MANAGER`
- `MEMBER`
- `OPERATOR`
- `CUSTOMER`

:::note
The `ADMINISTRATOR` has all privileges on the project.
:::

### Edit project role

To edit the project role, perform the following steps:

1. Login into the ReportPortal as a user with `PROJECT_MANAGER` project role.
2. Navigate to the "Project Members" page on the left menu.
3. Select a new value from the "Project Role" drop-down for the user. - The new project role will be automatically saved.

<MediaViewer src="https://youtu.be/DF38BbE5vws" alt="Edit Project Role From Project Members Page" type="video" />

### Unassign user from the project

Depending on the project needs the assignment could be removed.
To unassign the assignment for the user on the project, perform the following steps:

1. Login into the ReportPortal as a user with `PROJECT_MANAGER` project role.
2. Navigate to the "Project Members" page on the left menu.
3. Find the required member.
4. Click the 'Unassign' button for the user.
5. Confirm the action in the popup.
6. The user will be unassigned from the current project but will stay in the system.


:::note
Invite user, Assign/Unassign internal user to/from the project, change user's role on a project action can be done for a user
with a similar and lower role only.
:::

:::important
Administrator can also [add users to the project](/admin-panel/AllUsersPage).
:::
