src/md/src/DevGuides/async-reporting.md, before:

# Asynchronous reporting

1. [Overview](#overview)
1. [Simple scheme of interactions between RabbitMq and API](#simple-sccheme-of-interactions-between-rabbitmq-and-api)
1. [Enable asynchronous reporting in agents](#enable-asynchronous-reporting-in-agents)
1. [Asynchronous API](#asynchronous-api)
1. [Detailed scheme of interactions between RabbitMq and API](#detailed-scheme-of-interactions-between-rabbitmq-and-api)
    1. [API properties](#api-properties)
    1. [Exchanges and queues for reporting](#exchanges-and-queues-for-reporting)
    1. [Scheme](#scheme)
    1. [Finishing launch](#finishing-launch)
---

### Overview

Asynchronous reporting implemented using [AMQP 0-9-1](https://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorials/amqp-concepts.html) protocol based on 
[RabbitMq](https://www.rabbitmq.com) message broker.
The main idea of async reporting is to give response back immediately after server receiving request from client.
So using that approach client is not blocked and don't wait until server process request.

### Simple scheme of interactions between RabbitMq and API

* **Step 1**  
`API` receives HTTP request from `client`. `Controller` checks permissions and throws request to `producer`.
* **Step 2**  
`Producer` validates business rules if necessary, generates UUID(virtual id) for entity and returns it back to `controller`, 
composes message for `RabbitMq` and 
sends it to specified queue.
After that `controller` returns HTTP response to `client` that contains UUID. **At the moment physical entity may not be created!**
* **Step 3**  
`Consumer` starts processing the message as soon as it received from `RabbitMq`. 
After successfully processed entity will be stored in database and obtain physical id. 
In case exception occurs it logged and entity will not be saved.

![](/src/Images/devguide/async/simple-scheme.png)

### Enable asynchronous reporting in agents

Async reporting is supported only in agents since version 5.0.0.
To enable it you should set `rp.reporting.async=true` (*) in `reportportal.properties`.
By default (if property `rp.reporting.async` is not specified) agents work in synchronous mode.

```properties
rp.endpoint=https://example.com
rp.api.key=xxx
rp.launch=launch-name
rp.project=project-name
rp.reporting.async=true
```

(*) For java based agents only. Enabling in other agents may be different.

### Asynchronous API

Async controllers has `/api/v2` prefix.
Requests and responses have no differences with sync ones but there are some specific distinctions in behavior that described in 
[reporting guide](./reporting.md).

* [Start launch](./reporting.md#start-launch)
* [Start root(suite) item](./reporting.md#start-rootsuite-item)
* [Start child(container) item](./reporting.md#start-childcontainer-item)
* [Start child(step) item](./reporting.md#start-childstep-item)
* [Finish child item](./reporting.md#finish-child-item)
* [Finish parent(container) item](./reporting.md#finish-parentcontainer-item)
* [Save single log without attachment](./reporting.md#save-single-log-without-attachment)
* [Batch save logs](./reporting.md#batch-save-logs)
* [Save launch log](./reporting.md#save-launch-log)
* [Finish root(suite) item](./reporting.md#finish-rootsuite-item)
* [Finish launch](./reporting.md#finish-launch)

### Detailed scheme of interactions between RabbitMq and API

#### API properties

`API` has the following properties for connection to RabbitMq service:

| Name                 | Environment variable name | Default value                          |
|----------------------|---------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| rp.amqp.host         | RP_AMQP_HOST              | rabbitmq                               |
| rp.amqp.port         | RP_AMQP_PORT              | 5672                                   |
| rp.amqp.user         | RP_AMQP_USER              | rabbitmq                               |
| rp.amqp.pass         | RP_AMQP_PASS              | rabbitmq                               |
| rp.amqp.addresses    | RP_AMQP_ADDRESSES         | amqp://rabbitmq:rabbitmq@rabbitmq:5672 |
| rp.amqp.queues       | RP_AMQP_QUEUES            | 10                                     |
| rp.amqp.queuesPerPod |                           | 10                                     |

`rp.amqp.host` - Hostname of RabbitMq service.  
`rp.amqp.port` - Port of RabbitMq service.  
`rp.amqp.user` - Username to connect to RabbitMq service.  
`rp.amqp.pass` - User password to connect to RabbitMq service.  
`rp.amqp.addresses` - Full address to connect to RabbitMq service.  
`rp.amqp.queues` - Number of queues to be processed by this service-api.  
`rp.amqp.queuesPerPod` - Cluster configuration parameter. Number of queues to be processed by this service-api pod 
(default effectively infinite).
Note: should correlate with number QUEUE_AMOUNT & number of service-api pods being started in cluster.

#### Exchanges and queues for reporting

`API` produces two reporting exchanges - `reporting` and `reporting.retry`. Exchange `reporting` contains queues for storing messages 
from requests. Exchange `reporting.retry` contains queues for storing messages that was consumed exceptionally from queues in `reporting` 
exchange. Amount of queues in exchanges depends on `rp.amqp.queues` parameter. Exchange `reporting` has N queues with names 
reporting.0 ... reporting.N. Exchange `reporting.retry` has N+1 queues with names reporting.retry.0 ... reporting.retry.N and reporting.dlq.
In case message from `reporting.retry` was consumed with exception more than 10 times, the message will be stored in reporting.dlq which is 
[dead letter queue](https://www.rabbitmq.com/dlx.html).

![](/src/Images/devguide/async/exchanges-queues.png)

#### Scheme

All requests(items, logs) related to the same launch will be stored in the same rabbit queue. 
It is achieved using the following algorithm that map launch uuid to queue key:
![](/src/Images/devguide/async/uuid-queus-mapping.png)

Messages in queue don't have strict order but they stored mostly in the same order as they came from `client`. 
So it ensure minimal amount of exceptions and sending messages to retry queue in cases when child handled before its parent. 

Consuming scheme:

![](/src/Images/devguide/async/consuming.png)

`(!)` Possible exceptions that may be thrown and leads to sending message to retry queue:
* On start launch/test item:
    * User not found
    * Entity not found. Parent entity not found
    * Bad request. Start time of child item is earlier than parent start time, trying to report child under retry item, trying 
    to report non nested step under nested step parent, trying to rerun launch that not exists
* On finish launch/test item:
    * Entity not found. Entity that has to be finished not found in database or parent entity not found (for test items).
    * Bad request. User tries to finish already finished entity. Finish time is earlier than start time.
    * Access denied. User tries to finish not own entity of under not own project
* On log creation:
    * Entity not found. Trying to create log for not existing launch/test item

#### Finishing launch

If order is not broken finish launch request will be handled when there are no more child item requests in queue.

![](/src/Images/devguide/async/finish-launch.png)

`(!)` It is main difference in reporting mechanism between Report Portal version 4 and 5. 
In case launch finish request not last in the queue it will be finished anyway. 
But all the next request under the launch will be handled as soon as they come to consumer and launch statistics will be updated. 
So it is possible to report items under already finished launch.

Commit message:

differences between id and uuid

src/md/src/DevGuides/async-reporting.md, after:

# Asynchronous reporting

1. [Overview](#overview)
1. [Simple scheme of interactions between RabbitMq and API](#simple-sccheme-of-interactions-between-rabbitmq-and-api)
1. [Enable asynchronous reporting in agents](#enable-asynchronous-reporting-in-agents)
1. [Asynchronous API](#asynchronous-api)
1. [Detailed scheme of interactions between RabbitMq and API](#detailed-scheme-of-interactions-between-rabbitmq-and-api)
    1. [API properties](#api-properties)
    1. [Exchanges and queues for reporting](#exchanges-and-queues-for-reporting)
    1. [Scheme](#scheme)
    1. [Finishing launch](#finishing-launch)
---

### Overview

Asynchronous reporting implemented using [AMQP 0-9-1](https://www.rabbitmq.com/tutorials/amqp-concepts.html) protocol based on 
[RabbitMq](https://www.rabbitmq.com) message broker.
The main idea of async reporting is to give response back immediately after server receiving request from client.
So using that approach client is not blocked and don't wait until server process request.

### Simple scheme of interactions between RabbitMq and API

***Difference between ID and UUID***
`ID` is physical identificator of entity generated automatic by database at the moment of saving.  
`UUID` is virtual identificator of entity. Can be specified in request or if not present in request generated automatic at the moment 
`api` accepts request.  
Each entity has both `ID` and `UUID`. `ID` is used to perform CRUD operation with ***already saved in db*** entity. 
`UUID` is used to build child-parent relationships between entities at client side during reporting. 
In case synchronous reporting any response from `api` returns ***after*** handling request and saving entity in database. 
In case asynchronous reporting any response from `api` returns ***before*** handling request and saving entity in database.
Responses in both modes looks the same:
```json
{
  "id": "cd64d5eb-fea1-4e7e-8a5a-69998ac5620f"
}
```
`id` property of response actually is `UUID`. This is due to backward compatibility. 
So when you have this uuid and want to update, delete ent entity you should get physical `id` from db first. 

* **Step 1**  
`API` receives HTTP request from `client`. `Controller` checks permissions and throws request to `producer`.
* **Step 2**  
`Producer` validates business rules if necessary, generates UUID(virtual id) for entity and returns it back to `controller`, 
composes message for `RabbitMq` and 
sends it to specified queue.
After that `controller` returns HTTP response to `client` that contains UUID. **At the moment physical entity may not be created!**
* **Step 3**  
`Consumer` starts processing the message as soon as it received from `RabbitMq`. 
After successfully processed entity will be stored in database and obtain physical id. 
In case exception occurs it logged and entity will not be saved.

![](/src/Images/devguide/async/simple-scheme.png)

### Enable asynchronous reporting in agents

Async reporting is supported only in agents since version 5.0.0.
To enable it you should set `rp.reporting.async=true` (*) in `reportportal.properties`.
By default (if property `rp.reporting.async` is not specified) agents work in synchronous mode.

```properties
rp.endpoint=https://example.com
rp.api.key=xxx
rp.launch=launch-name
rp.project=project-name
rp.reporting.async=true
```

(*) For java based agents only. Enabling in other agents may be different.

### Asynchronous API

Async controllers has `/api/v2` prefix.
Requests and responses have no differences with sync ones but there are some specific distinctions in behavior that described in 
[reporting guide](./reporting.md).

* [Start launch](./reporting.md#start-launch)
* [Start root(suite) item](./reporting.md#start-rootsuite-item)
* [Start child(container) item](./reporting.md#start-childcontainer-item)
* [Start child(step) item](./reporting.md#start-childstep-item)
* [Finish child item](./reporting.md#finish-child-item)
* [Finish parent(container) item](./reporting.md#finish-parentcontainer-item)
* [Save single log without attachment](./reporting.md#save-single-log-without-attachment)
* [Batch save logs](./reporting.md#batch-save-logs)
* [Save launch log](./reporting.md#save-launch-log)
* [Finish root(suite) item](./reporting.md#finish-rootsuite-item)
* [Finish launch](./reporting.md#finish-launch)

### Detailed scheme of interactions between RabbitMq and API

#### API properties

`API` has the following properties for connection to RabbitMq service:

| Name                 | Environment variable name | Default value                          |
|----------------------|---------------------------|----------------------------------------|
| rp.amqp.host         | RP_AMQP_HOST              | rabbitmq                               |
| rp.amqp.port         | RP_AMQP_PORT              | 5672                                   |
| rp.amqp.user         | RP_AMQP_USER              | rabbitmq                               |
| rp.amqp.pass         | RP_AMQP_PASS              | rabbitmq                               |
| rp.amqp.addresses    | RP_AMQP_ADDRESSES         | amqp://rabbitmq:rabbitmq@rabbitmq:5672 |
| rp.amqp.queues       | RP_AMQP_QUEUES            | 10                                     |
| rp.amqp.queuesPerPod |                           | 10                                     |

`rp.amqp.host` - Hostname of RabbitMq service.  
`rp.amqp.port` - Port of RabbitMq service.  
`rp.amqp.user` - Username to connect to RabbitMq service.  
`rp.amqp.pass` - User password to connect to RabbitMq service.  
`rp.amqp.addresses` - Full address to connect to RabbitMq service.  
`rp.amqp.queues` - Number of queues to be processed by this service-api.  
`rp.amqp.queuesPerPod` - Cluster configuration parameter. Number of queues to be processed by this service-api pod 
(default effectively infinite).
Note: should correlate with number QUEUE_AMOUNT & number of service-api pods being started in cluster.

#### Exchanges and queues for reporting

`API` produces two reporting exchanges - `reporting` and `reporting.retry`. Exchange `reporting` contains queues for storing messages 
from requests. Exchange `reporting.retry` contains queues for storing messages that was consumed exceptionally from queues in `reporting` 
exchange. Amount of queues in exchanges depends on `rp.amqp.queues` parameter. Exchange `reporting` has N queues with names 
reporting.0 ... reporting.N. Exchange `reporting.retry` has N+1 queues with names reporting.retry.0 ... reporting.retry.N and reporting.dlq.
In case message from `reporting.retry` was consumed with exception more than 10 times, the message will be stored in reporting.dlq which is 
[dead letter queue](https://www.rabbitmq.com/dlx.html).

![](/src/Images/devguide/async/exchanges-queues.png)

#### Scheme

All requests(items, logs) related to the same launch will be stored in the same rabbit queue. 
It is achieved using the following algorithm that map launch uuid to queue key:
![](/src/Images/devguide/async/uuid-queus-mapping.png)

Messages in queue don't have strict order but they stored mostly in the same order as they came from `client`. 
So it ensure minimal amount of exceptions and sending messages to retry queue in cases when child handled before its parent. 

Consuming scheme:

![](/src/Images/devguide/async/consuming.png)

`(!)` Possible exceptions that may be thrown and leads to sending message to retry queue:
* On start launch/test item:
    * User not found
    * Entity not found. Parent entity not found
    * Bad request. Start time of child item is earlier than parent start time, trying to report child under retry item, trying 
    to report non nested step under nested step parent, trying to rerun launch that not exists
* On finish launch/test item:
    * Entity not found. Entity that has to be finished not found in database or parent entity not found (for test items).
    * Bad request. User tries to finish already finished entity. Finish time is earlier than start time.
    * Access denied. User tries to finish not own entity of under not own project
* On log creation:
    * Entity not found. Trying to create log for not existing launch/test item

#### Finishing launch

If order is not broken finish launch request will be handled when there are no more child item requests in queue.

![](/src/Images/devguide/async/finish-launch.png)

`(!)` It is main difference in reporting mechanism between Report Portal version 4 and 5. 
In case launch finish request not last in the queue it will be finished anyway. 
But all the next request under the launch will be handled as soon as they come to consumer and launch statistics will be updated. 
So it is possible to report items under already finished launch.
