src/md/src/DevGuides/plugin.md, before:

# Plugin developer guide

1. [Introduction](#introduction)
1. [How does it work](#how does it work)
1. [Creating your first plugin](#creating your first plugin)
    1. [Base plugin configuration](#base plugin configuration)
    1. [Create extension](#create extension)
    1. [Autowire dependencies](#autowire dependencies)
    1. [Get file command](#get file command)
    1. [Assemble plugin](#assemble plugin)
    1. [Event listeners](#event listeners)
1. [Lazy initialization](#lazy initialization)

## Introduction

Report Portal as a microservice application had services that integrate with external systems like JIRA or RALLY. These are problems of this
approach:

- every service will run as a separate application consuming additional amount of resources for environment;
- user may not need all the integrations at the moment but need some (or a new one) later, so he should modify deployment configuration
  every time;
- every service modification requires re-deployment.

To solve these problems and support dynamic integrations Report Portal implements plugin system on top
of [PF4J](https://github.com/pf4j/pf4j).

## How does it work

![](/src/Images/devguide/plugin/install_plugin.png)

## Creating your first plugin

#### Base plugin configuration

We configure our build.gradle file as follows:

```groovy
plugins {
    id "io.spring.dependency-management" version "1.0.9.RELEASE"
    id 'java'
}

repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}

dependencies {
    implementation 'com.epam.reportportal:plugin-api:5.4.0'
    annotationProcessor 'com.epam.reportportal:plugin-api:5.4.0'
}

task plugin(type: Jar) {
    getArchiveBaseName().set("plugin-${pluginId}")
    into('classes') {
        with jar
    }
    into('lib') {
        from configurations.compile
    }
    extension('zip')
}

task assemblePlugin(type: Copy) {
    from plugin
    into pluginsDir
}

task assemblePlugins(type: Copy) {
    dependsOn subprojects.assemblePlugin
}
```

This base configuration with `plugin-api` dependency grants access to extension points and core Report Portal dependencies.

<br/>

#### Create extension

Firstly we create our plugin representation (we also can override `start()` and `stop()` methods) that will be managed by `pf4j` plugin
manager.

```java
package com.epam.reportportal.extension.example;

import org.pf4j.Plugin;
import org.pf4j.PluginWrapper;

public class ExamplePlugin extends Plugin {
	public ExamplePlugin(PluginWrapper wrapper) {
		super(wrapper);
	}
}
```

Then we create our plugin entry point. We start with `ReportPortalExtensionPoint` implementation:

```java

@Extension
public class ExampleExtension implements ReportPortalExtensionPoint {

	private final Supplier<Map<String, PluginCommand<?>>> pluginCommandMapping = new MemoizingSupplier<>(this::getCommands);

	public ExampleExtension(Map<String, Object> initParams) {

	}

	@Override
	public Map<String, ?> getPluginParams() {
		Map<String, Object> params = new HashMap<>();
		params.put(ALLOWED_COMMANDS, new ArrayList<>(pluginCommandMapping.get().keySet()));
		return params;
	}

	@Override
	public PluginCommand<?> getCommandToExecute(String commandName) {
		return pluginCommandMapping.get().get(commandName);
	}

	private Map<String, PluginCommand<?>> getCommands() {
		Map<String, PluginCommand<?>> pluginCommandMapping = new HashMap<>();
		pluginCommandMapping.put("testConnection", (integration, params) -> true);
		return pluginCommandMapping;
	}
}
```

We implement `getPluginParams()` to get list of supported plugin `commands` from the client side. We implement `getCommandToExecute()` to
get command from mapping to execute. As for now we only have `testConnection` command that implements base command interface:

```java
public interface PluginCommand<T> {
	/**
	 * Executes plugin command
	 *
	 * @param integration Configured ReportPortal integration
	 * @param params      Plugin Command parameters
	 * @return Result
	 */
	T executeCommand(Integration integration, Map<String, Object> params);
}
```

Command `testConnection` is mandatory and should either always return `true` or execute logic of connection test with external system.

<br/>

#### Autowire dependencies

Being loaded in runtime plugin extension can be handled as `Spring bean`. That's why we can autowire dependencies just as we do in core
application:

```java

@Extension
public class ExampleExtension implements ReportPortalExtensionPoint {
  ...
	@Autowired
	private ApplicationContext applicationContext;

	@Autowired
	private IntegrationTypeRepository integrationTypeRepository;

	@Autowired
	private IntegrationRepository integrationRepository;

	public ExampleExtension(Map<String, Object> initParams) {
	}
  ...
}      
```

<br/>

#### Get file command

We can store in `resources` folder files that can be loaded from the client side later. During plugin installation `plugin manager` provides
directory in the file system to store plugin resources. This directory passed through the constructor (with Map parameter) and can be
accessed as follows:

```java

@Extension
public class ExampleExtension implements ReportPortalExtensionPoint {

	private final String resourcesDir;

	...

	public ExampleExtension(Map<String, Object> initParams) {
		resourcesDir = IntegrationTypeProperties.RESOURCES_DIRECTORY.getValue(initParams).map(String::valueOf).orElse("");
	}

	...
}
```

`GetFileCommand` accepts `resourcesDir` and `propertyFile` as constructor parameters. Property file should be stored in `resources` folder
of the plugin. It contains *key-value* mapping that represents files allowed to be loaded from the client side:

```properties
icon=plugin-icon.svg
```

We created `example-binary-data.properties` file with these contents and now can access `plugin-icon.svg` file by passing `icon` key
to `getFileCommand`.

That's how our extension looks now:

```java

@Extension
public class ExampleExtension implements ReportPortalExtensionPoint {

	public static final String BINARY_DATA_PROPERTIES_FILE_ID = "example-binary-data.properties";
	private final String resourcesDir;

	private final Supplier<Map<String, PluginCommand<?>>> pluginCommandMapping = new MemoizingSupplier<>(this::getCommands);

	@Autowired
	private ApplicationContext applicationContext;

	@Autowired
	private IntegrationTypeRepository integrationTypeRepository;

	@Autowired
	private IntegrationRepository integrationRepository;

	public ExampleExtension(Map<String, Object> initParams) {
		resourcesDir = IntegrationTypeProperties.RESOURCES_DIRECTORY.getValue(initParams).map(String::valueOf).orElse("");
	}

	@Override
	public Map<String, ?> getPluginParams() {
		Map<String, Object> params = new HashMap<>();
		params.put(ALLOWED_COMMANDS, new ArrayList<>(pluginCommandMapping.get().keySet()));
		return params;
	}

	@Override
	public PluginCommand<?> getCommandToExecute(String commandName) {
		return pluginCommandMapping.get().get(commandName);
	}

	private Map<String, PluginCommand<?>> getCommands() {
		Map<String, PluginCommand<?>> pluginCommandMapping = new HashMap<>();
		pluginCommandMapping.put("getFile", new GetFileCommand(resourcesDir, BINARY_DATA_PROPERTIES_FILE_ID));
		pluginCommandMapping.put("testConnection", (integration, params) -> true);
		return pluginCommandMapping;
	}
}
```

<br/>

#### Assemble plugin

Our plugin can be built either as:
  - simple jar (without external dependencies) and use dependencies from core application;
  - shadow jar (with external dependencies) and still use dependencies from core application.

We should configure plugin jar manifest with mandatory properties:
  - id
  - version
  - plugin class (class marked with @Extension - our entry point)

We should configure `resource` folder contents handling.

As we load api plugin contents in runtime we can do so with ui contents too. To make it possible we should modify our configuration.
We provide new `ui.gradle` config:

```groovy
node {
    version = '10.14.1'
    npmVersion = '6.4.1'
    download = true
    workDir = file("${project.buildDir}/ui")
    nodeModulesDir = file("${project.rootDir}/ui")
}

npm_run_build {
    inputs.files fileTree("ui/src")
    inputs.file 'ui/package.json'
    inputs.file 'ui/package-lock.json'
    outputs.dir 'ui/build'
}
```

Load it to the main configuration as a dependency and make some changes to include generated `main.js` file to `resources` folder that
allows us to load it using `GetFileCommand`.

That's how our `build.gradle` looks now:

```groovy
import com.github.spotbugs.SpotBugsTask

plugins {
    id "io.spring.dependency-management" version "1.0.9.RELEASE"
    id 'java'
    id 'com.github.johnrengelman.shadow' version '5.2.0'
    id "com.moowork.node" version "1.3.1"
}

apply from: 'ui.gradle'

repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}

dependencies {
    implementation 'com.epam.reportportal:plugin-api:5.4.0'
    annotationProcessor 'com.epam.reportportal:plugin-api:5.4.0'
}

artifacts {
    archives shadowJar
}

sourceSets {
    main {
        resources
                {
                    exclude '**'
                }
    }
}

jar {
    from("src/main/resources") {
        into("/resources")
    }
    from("ui/build") {
        into("/resources")
    }
    manifest {
        attributes(
                "Class-Path": configurations.compile.collect { it.getName() }.join(' '),
                "Plugin-Id": "${pluginId}",
                "Plugin-Version": "${project.version}",
                "Plugin-Provider": "Report Portal",
                "Plugin-Class": "com.epam.reportportal.extension.example.ExamplePlugin",
                "Plugin-Service": "api"
        )
    }
}

shadowJar {
    from("src/main/resources") {
        into("/resources")
    }
    from("ui/build") {
        into("/resources")
    }
    configurations = [project.configurations.compile]
    zip64 true
    dependencies {
    }
}

task plugin(type: Jar) {
    getArchiveBaseName().set("plugin-${pluginId}")
    into('classes') {
        with jar
    }
    into('lib') {
        from configurations.compile
    }
    extension('zip')
}

task assemblePlugin(type: Copy) {
    from plugin
    into pluginsDir
}

task assemblePlugins(type: Copy) {
    dependsOn subprojects.assemblePlugin
}

compileJava.dependsOn npm_run_build
```

Now we can just execute *./gradlew build* and get plugin binaries (as jar and as shadowJar) that can be loaded to the application.

#### Event listeners

All plugin commands are executed through the core application end-point with mapping:

`https://host:port/v1/integration/{projectName}/{integrationId}/{command}`

As we can see `integrationId` is a mandatory parameter that specifies integration to be used in the command execution.

We can affect logic executed in core application from the plugin by handling predefined set of events. As for now we will use
mandatory `PluginLoadedEventHandler` as an example.

This handler creates the very first integration and uses `PluginInfoProvider` to update plugin data in the database.

To add a new listener we should use `ApplicationContext` after plugin was loaded - so we do it in the method marked by `@PostConstruct`.

Also, we should remove listeners when we unload plugin - so we implement `DisposableBean` interface and provide this logic in the `preDestroy()` method.

That's how our extension looks now:

```java

@Extension
public class ExampleExtension implements ReportPortalExtensionPoint, DisposableBean {

	public static final String BINARY_DATA_PROPERTIES_FILE_ID = "example-binary-data.properties";
	private static final String PLUGIN_ID = "example";
	private final String resourcesDir;

	private final Supplier<Map<String, PluginCommand<?>>> pluginCommandMapping = new MemoizingSupplier<>(this::getCommands);
	private final Supplier<ApplicationListener<PluginEvent>> pluginLoadedListenerSupplier;

	@Autowired
	private ApplicationContext applicationContext;

	@Autowired
	private IntegrationTypeRepository integrationTypeRepository;

	@Autowired
	private IntegrationRepository integrationRepository;

	public ExampleExtension(Map<String, Object> initParams) {
		resourcesDir = IntegrationTypeProperties.RESOURCES_DIRECTORY.getValue(initParams).map(String::valueOf).orElse("");

		pluginLoadedListenerSupplier = new MemoizingSupplier<>(() -> new ExamplePluginEventListener(PLUGIN_ID,
				new PluginEventHandlerFactory(integrationTypeRepository,
						integrationRepository,
						new PluginInfoProviderImpl(resourcesDir, BINARY_DATA_PROPERTIES_FILE_ID)
				)
		));
	}

	@Override
	public Map<String, ?> getPluginParams() {
		Map<String, Object> params = new HashMap<>();
		params.put(ALLOWED_COMMANDS, new ArrayList<>(pluginCommandMapping.get().keySet()));
		return params;
	}

	@Override
	public PluginCommand<?> getCommandToExecute(String commandName) {
		return pluginCommandMapping.get().get(commandName);
	}

	@PostConstruct
	public void createIntegration() throws IOException {
		initListeners();
	}

	private void initListeners() {
		ApplicationEventMulticaster applicationEventMulticaster = applicationContext.getBean(AbstractApplicationContext.APPLICATION_EVENT_MULTICASTER_BEAN_NAME,
				ApplicationEventMulticaster.class
		);
		applicationEventMulticaster.addApplicationListener(pluginLoadedListenerSupplier.get());
	}

	@Override
	public void destroy() {
		removeListeners();
	}

	private void removeListeners() {
		ApplicationEventMulticaster applicationEventMulticaster = applicationContext.getBean(AbstractApplicationContext.APPLICATION_EVENT_MULTICASTER_BEAN_NAME,
				ApplicationEventMulticaster.class
		);
		applicationEventMulticaster.removeApplicationListener(pluginLoadedListenerSupplier.get());
	}

	private Map<String, PluginCommand<?>> getCommands() {
		Map<String, PluginCommand<?>> pluginCommandMapping = new HashMap<>();
		pluginCommandMapping.put("getFile", new GetFileCommand(resourcesDir, BINARY_DATA_PROPERTIES_FILE_ID));
		pluginCommandMapping.put("testConnection", (integration, params) -> true);
		return pluginCommandMapping;
	}
}
```

## Lazy initialization

All plugin components that relies on `@Autowired` dependencies should be loaded lazily using `MemoizingSupplier` or another lazy-load mechanism.
This is the restriction of plugin installation flow: 
##### We create extension object using constructor and only then we autowire dependencies. If we don't use lazy initialization - all objects created in the constructor will be created with `NULL` objects that were marked as `@Autowired`

Commit message:

Link to plugin example provided

src/md/src/DevGuides/plugin.md, after:

# Plugin developer guide

1. [Introduction](#introduction)
1. [How does it work](#how does it work)
1. [Creating your first plugin](#creating your first plugin)
    1. [Base plugin configuration](#base plugin configuration)
    1. [Create extension](#create extension)
    1. [Autowire dependencies](#autowire dependencies)
    1. [Get file command](#get file command)
    1. [Assemble plugin](#assemble plugin)
    1. [Event listeners](#event listeners)
1. [Lazy initialization](#lazy initialization)

## Introduction

Report Portal as a microservice application had services that integrate with external systems like JIRA or RALLY. These are problems of this
approach:

- every service will run as a separate application consuming additional amount of resources for environment;
- user may not need all the integrations at the moment but need some (or a new one) later, so he should modify deployment configuration
  every time;
- every service modification requires re-deployment.

To solve these problems and support dynamic integrations Report Portal implements plugin system on top
of [PF4J](https://github.com/pf4j/pf4j).

## How does it work

![](/src/Images/devguide/plugin/install_plugin.png)

## Creating your first plugin

Result of the following steps can be found here - [Plugin example](https://github.com/reportportal/plugin-example).
This is fully configured and ready-to-use plugin

#### Base plugin configuration

We configure our build.gradle file as follows:

```groovy
plugins {
    id "io.spring.dependency-management" version "1.0.9.RELEASE"
    id 'java'
}

repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}

dependencies {
    implementation 'com.epam.reportportal:plugin-api:5.4.0'
    annotationProcessor 'com.epam.reportportal:plugin-api:5.4.0'
}

task plugin(type: Jar) {
    getArchiveBaseName().set("plugin-${pluginId}")
    into('classes') {
        with jar
    }
    into('lib') {
        from configurations.compile
    }
    extension('zip')
}

task assemblePlugin(type: Copy) {
    from plugin
    into pluginsDir
}

task assemblePlugins(type: Copy) {
    dependsOn subprojects.assemblePlugin
}
```

This base configuration with `plugin-api` dependency grants access to extension points and core Report Portal dependencies.

<br/>

#### Create extension

Firstly we create our plugin representation (we also can override `start()` and `stop()` methods) that will be managed by `pf4j` plugin
manager.

```java
package com.epam.reportportal.extension.example;

import org.pf4j.Plugin;
import org.pf4j.PluginWrapper;

public class ExamplePlugin extends Plugin {
	public ExamplePlugin(PluginWrapper wrapper) {
		super(wrapper);
	}
}
```

Then we create our plugin entry point. We start with `ReportPortalExtensionPoint` implementation:

```java

@Extension
public class ExampleExtension implements ReportPortalExtensionPoint {

	private final Supplier<Map<String, PluginCommand<?>>> pluginCommandMapping = new MemoizingSupplier<>(this::getCommands);

	public ExampleExtension(Map<String, Object> initParams) {

	}

	@Override
	public Map<String, ?> getPluginParams() {
		Map<String, Object> params = new HashMap<>();
		params.put(ALLOWED_COMMANDS, new ArrayList<>(pluginCommandMapping.get().keySet()));
		return params;
	}

	@Override
	public PluginCommand<?> getCommandToExecute(String commandName) {
		return pluginCommandMapping.get().get(commandName);
	}

	private Map<String, PluginCommand<?>> getCommands() {
		Map<String, PluginCommand<?>> pluginCommandMapping = new HashMap<>();
		pluginCommandMapping.put("testConnection", (integration, params) -> true);
		return pluginCommandMapping;
	}
}
```

We implement `getPluginParams()` to get list of supported plugin `commands` from the client side. We implement `getCommandToExecute()` to
get command from mapping to execute. As for now we only have `testConnection` command that implements base command interface:

```java
public interface PluginCommand<T> {
	/**
	 * Executes plugin command
	 *
	 * @param integration Configured ReportPortal integration
	 * @param params      Plugin Command parameters
	 * @return Result
	 */
	T executeCommand(Integration integration, Map<String, Object> params);
}
```

Command `testConnection` is mandatory and should either always return `true` or execute logic of connection test with external system.

<br/>

#### Autowire dependencies

Being loaded in runtime plugin extension can be handled as `Spring bean`. That's why we can autowire dependencies just as we do in core
application:

```java

@Extension
public class ExampleExtension implements ReportPortalExtensionPoint {
  ...
	@Autowired
	private ApplicationContext applicationContext;

	@Autowired
	private IntegrationTypeRepository integrationTypeRepository;

	@Autowired
	private IntegrationRepository integrationRepository;

	public ExampleExtension(Map<String, Object> initParams) {
	}
  ...
}      
```

<br/>

#### Get file command

We can store in `resources` folder files that can be loaded from the client side later. During plugin installation `plugin manager` provides
directory in the file system to store plugin resources. This directory passed through the constructor (with Map parameter) and can be
accessed as follows:

```java

@Extension
public class ExampleExtension implements ReportPortalExtensionPoint {

	private final String resourcesDir;

	...

	public ExampleExtension(Map<String, Object> initParams) {
		resourcesDir = IntegrationTypeProperties.RESOURCES_DIRECTORY.getValue(initParams).map(String::valueOf).orElse("");
	}

	...
}
```

`GetFileCommand` accepts `resourcesDir` and `propertyFile` as constructor parameters. Property file should be stored in `resources` folder
of the plugin. It contains *key-value* mapping that represents files allowed to be loaded from the client side:

```properties
icon=plugin-icon.svg
```

We created `example-binary-data.properties` file with these contents and now can access `plugin-icon.svg` file by passing `icon` key
to `getFileCommand`.

That's how our extension looks now:

```java

@Extension
public class ExampleExtension implements ReportPortalExtensionPoint {

	public static final String BINARY_DATA_PROPERTIES_FILE_ID = "example-binary-data.properties";
	private final String resourcesDir;

	private final Supplier<Map<String, PluginCommand<?>>> pluginCommandMapping = new MemoizingSupplier<>(this::getCommands);

	@Autowired
	private ApplicationContext applicationContext;

	@Autowired
	private IntegrationTypeRepository integrationTypeRepository;

	@Autowired
	private IntegrationRepository integrationRepository;

	public ExampleExtension(Map<String, Object> initParams) {
		resourcesDir = IntegrationTypeProperties.RESOURCES_DIRECTORY.getValue(initParams).map(String::valueOf).orElse("");
	}

	@Override
	public Map<String, ?> getPluginParams() {
		Map<String, Object> params = new HashMap<>();
		params.put(ALLOWED_COMMANDS, new ArrayList<>(pluginCommandMapping.get().keySet()));
		return params;
	}

	@Override
	public PluginCommand<?> getCommandToExecute(String commandName) {
		return pluginCommandMapping.get().get(commandName);
	}

	private Map<String, PluginCommand<?>> getCommands() {
		Map<String, PluginCommand<?>> pluginCommandMapping = new HashMap<>();
		pluginCommandMapping.put("getFile", new GetFileCommand(resourcesDir, BINARY_DATA_PROPERTIES_FILE_ID));
		pluginCommandMapping.put("testConnection", (integration, params) -> true);
		return pluginCommandMapping;
	}
}
```

<br/>

#### Assemble plugin

Our plugin can be built either as:
  - simple jar (without external dependencies) and use dependencies from core application;
  - shadow jar (with external dependencies) and still use dependencies from core application.

We should configure plugin jar manifest with mandatory properties:
  - id
  - version
  - plugin class (class marked with @Extension - our entry point)

We should configure `resource` folder contents handling.

As we load api plugin contents in runtime we can do so with ui contents too. To make it possible we should modify our configuration.
We provide new `ui.gradle` config:

```groovy
node {
    version = '10.14.1'
    npmVersion = '6.4.1'
    download = true
    workDir = file("${project.buildDir}/ui")
    nodeModulesDir = file("${project.rootDir}/ui")
}

npm_run_build {
    inputs.files fileTree("ui/src")
    inputs.file 'ui/package.json'
    inputs.file 'ui/package-lock.json'
    outputs.dir 'ui/build'
}
```

Load it to the main configuration as a dependency and make some changes to include generated `main.js` file to `resources` folder that
allows us to load it using `GetFileCommand`.

That's how our `build.gradle` looks now:

```groovy
import com.github.spotbugs.SpotBugsTask

plugins {
    id "io.spring.dependency-management" version "1.0.9.RELEASE"
    id 'java'
    id 'com.github.johnrengelman.shadow' version '5.2.0'
    id "com.moowork.node" version "1.3.1"
}

apply from: 'ui.gradle'

repositories {
    mavenCentral()
}

dependencies {
    implementation 'com.epam.reportportal:plugin-api:5.4.0'
    annotationProcessor 'com.epam.reportportal:plugin-api:5.4.0'
}

artifacts {
    archives shadowJar
}

sourceSets {
    main {
        resources
                {
                    exclude '**'
                }
    }
}

jar {
    from("src/main/resources") {
        into("/resources")
    }
    from("ui/build") {
        into("/resources")
    }
    manifest {
        attributes(
                "Class-Path": configurations.compile.collect { it.getName() }.join(' '),
                "Plugin-Id": "${pluginId}",
                "Plugin-Version": "${project.version}",
                "Plugin-Provider": "Report Portal",
                "Plugin-Class": "com.epam.reportportal.extension.example.ExamplePlugin",
                "Plugin-Service": "api"
        )
    }
}

shadowJar {
    from("src/main/resources") {
        into("/resources")
    }
    from("ui/build") {
        into("/resources")
    }
    configurations = [project.configurations.compile]
    zip64 true
    dependencies {
    }
}

task plugin(type: Jar) {
    getArchiveBaseName().set("plugin-${pluginId}")
    into('classes') {
        with jar
    }
    into('lib') {
        from configurations.compile
    }
    extension('zip')
}

task assemblePlugin(type: Copy) {
    from plugin
    into pluginsDir
}

task assemblePlugins(type: Copy) {
    dependsOn subprojects.assemblePlugin
}

compileJava.dependsOn npm_run_build
```

Now we can just execute *./gradlew build* and get plugin binaries (as jar and as shadowJar) that can be loaded to the application.

#### Event listeners

All plugin commands are executed through the core application end-point with mapping:

`https://host:port/v1/integration/{projectName}/{integrationId}/{command}`

As we can see `integrationId` is a mandatory parameter that specifies integration to be used in the command execution.

We can affect logic executed in core application from the plugin by handling predefined set of events. As for now we will use
mandatory `PluginLoadedEventHandler` as an example.

This handler creates the very first integration and uses `PluginInfoProvider` to update plugin data in the database.

To add a new listener we should use `ApplicationContext` after plugin was loaded - so we do it in the method marked by `@PostConstruct`.

Also, we should remove listeners when we unload plugin - so we implement `DisposableBean` interface and provide this logic in the `preDestroy()` method.

That's how our extension looks now:

```java

@Extension
public class ExampleExtension implements ReportPortalExtensionPoint, DisposableBean {

	public static final String BINARY_DATA_PROPERTIES_FILE_ID = "example-binary-data.properties";
	private static final String PLUGIN_ID = "example";
	private final String resourcesDir;

	private final Supplier<Map<String, PluginCommand<?>>> pluginCommandMapping = new MemoizingSupplier<>(this::getCommands);
	private final Supplier<ApplicationListener<PluginEvent>> pluginLoadedListenerSupplier;

	@Autowired
	private ApplicationContext applicationContext;

	@Autowired
	private IntegrationTypeRepository integrationTypeRepository;

	@Autowired
	private IntegrationRepository integrationRepository;

	public ExampleExtension(Map<String, Object> initParams) {
		resourcesDir = IntegrationTypeProperties.RESOURCES_DIRECTORY.getValue(initParams).map(String::valueOf).orElse("");

		pluginLoadedListenerSupplier = new MemoizingSupplier<>(() -> new ExamplePluginEventListener(PLUGIN_ID,
				new PluginEventHandlerFactory(integrationTypeRepository,
						integrationRepository,
						new PluginInfoProviderImpl(resourcesDir, BINARY_DATA_PROPERTIES_FILE_ID)
				)
		));
	}

	@Override
	public Map<String, ?> getPluginParams() {
		Map<String, Object> params = new HashMap<>();
		params.put(ALLOWED_COMMANDS, new ArrayList<>(pluginCommandMapping.get().keySet()));
		return params;
	}

	@Override
	public PluginCommand<?> getCommandToExecute(String commandName) {
		return pluginCommandMapping.get().get(commandName);
	}

	@PostConstruct
	public void createIntegration() throws IOException {
		initListeners();
	}

	private void initListeners() {
		ApplicationEventMulticaster applicationEventMulticaster = applicationContext.getBean(AbstractApplicationContext.APPLICATION_EVENT_MULTICASTER_BEAN_NAME,
				ApplicationEventMulticaster.class
		);
		applicationEventMulticaster.addApplicationListener(pluginLoadedListenerSupplier.get());
	}

	@Override
	public void destroy() {
		removeListeners();
	}

	private void removeListeners() {
		ApplicationEventMulticaster applicationEventMulticaster = applicationContext.getBean(AbstractApplicationContext.APPLICATION_EVENT_MULTICASTER_BEAN_NAME,
				ApplicationEventMulticaster.class
		);
		applicationEventMulticaster.removeApplicationListener(pluginLoadedListenerSupplier.get());
	}

	private Map<String, PluginCommand<?>> getCommands() {
		Map<String, PluginCommand<?>> pluginCommandMapping = new HashMap<>();
		pluginCommandMapping.put("getFile", new GetFileCommand(resourcesDir, BINARY_DATA_PROPERTIES_FILE_ID));
		pluginCommandMapping.put("testConnection", (integration, params) -> true);
		return pluginCommandMapping;
	}
}
```

## Lazy initialization

All plugin components that relies on `@Autowired` dependencies should be loaded lazily using `MemoizingSupplier` or another lazy-load mechanism.
This is the restriction of plugin installation flow: 
##### We create extension object using constructor and only then we autowire dependencies. If we don't use lazy initialization - all objects created in the constructor will be created with `NULL` objects that were marked as `@Autowired`
