docs/work-with-reports/ViewLaunches.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: View launches
description: View and manage test launches with detailed execution data, filtering options, and real-time test reporting capabilities for comprehensive analysis.
---

# View launches

## Viewing information about all launches

A launch is an object in our test automation reporting platform, which contains your data for certain execution.  Inside the launches, we have test items, structured in the same way as you have it in your automation.

Launches are present in two modes – the Default mode on the "Launches" tab
and the Debug mode on the "Debug" tab.

### "Debug" tab

Although both modes share almost the same set of features, the "Debug" mode is
considered to be a more private one: it is not visible to the user with the
CUSTOMER role and all the filters created there cannot be saved to
"Filters". Filters are the base for building a widget, so widget charts are
not available for the launches from the "Debug" mode.

### "Launches" tab

A typical Launch structure comprises the following elements: **Suite** \> **Test**
\> **Step** \> **Log**.

:::note
The maximum page size is 300 items per page for all collection endpoints, including Launches / Suites / Tests / Steps / Logs.
:::

A suite may hierarchically lie under another suite.

The data in the "Launches" section is present in a table. By default, the
user sees all runs.

The "Launches" grid contains the following columns:

| Field        | Description | 
| -------- |-------------|
| Runs (at all launches level) |A **Launch name** or a **Suite name** or a **Class name** (depends on a drill-down level)|
| Start time |A launch start time in the "time ago" format (e.g. "10 minutes ago"); on mouse hover the system displays the accurate start time|
| Duration |The launch duration. For launches in progress remaining time is shown|
| Total |The total number of issues. It is a sum of all items with the **Passed**, **Failed**, **Skipped** and **Interrupted** statuses|
| Passed |The total number of issues that were completed with the **Passed** status.|
| Failed |The total number of issues that were completed with the **Failed** status.|
| Skipped |The total number of issues that were completed with the **Skipped** status. Any ReportPortal user can investigate failed and skipped issues with one of the following values: **Product Bug**, **Automation Bug**, **System Issue**|
| Product Bug |This type of issue is selected manually if it's a **product issue**|
| Auto Bug |This type of issue is selected manually if it's an **automation test issue**|
| System Issue |This type of issue is selected manually if it's a **system bug**|
| To investigate |The total number of **Failed** and **Skipped** issues left to investigate|

## Viewing all launches / latest launches 
You have two options to browse all project launches. By default, the system displays all launches of the project in one list in order of start time.

To filter launches, suites, tests by latest run, use the **‘Latest Launches’** option from the dropdown list (All Launches/Latest Launches) at the top of the page.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/view-launches/FilterLatestRun.png')} alt="reportportal filter latest run" />

In other words, when that option is turned on, you will see only launches with unique names with the last increment (#number).

*For example, there are launches with names ‘Demo#1’,   ‘Demo#2’, ‘Demo#3’ on a launches view. If you choose ‘Latest Launches’ option, the system will display ‘Demo#3’ launch only.*

In a Latest Launches view you may perform any regular actions: add a filter, perform actions from Actions menu, edit attributes, and edit the description.

## Viewing launch statistics

The data in the "Launches" table is present as links in the following
columns:

| Field        | Description | 
| -------- |-------------|
| Launch name |This link gives an opportunity to drill down to a specific launch|
| *Total* |This link takes you to the Test Cases view and shows all test cases within the launch in one table|
| *Passed* |This link takes you to the Test Cases view and shows all **passed** test cases within the launch in one table|
| *Failed* |This link takes you to the Test Cases view and shows all **failed** test cases within the launch in one table|
| *Skipped* |This link takes you to the Test Cases view and shows all **skipped** test cases within the launch in one table|
| *Product Bug* |This link takes you to the Test Cases view and shows all **failed** test cases marked as **"Product Bugs"** in the launch in one table|
| *Automation Bug* |this link takes you to the Test Cases view and shows all **failed** test cases marked as **"Automation Bugs"** in the launch in one table|
| *System Issue* |This link takes you to the Test Cases view and shows all **failed** test cases marked as **"System Issues"** in the launch in one table|
| *To Investigate* |This link takes you to the Test Cases view and shows all **failed** test cases with **no selected defect type** (marked as **"To Investigate"**) in the launch in one table|

To drill down your structure, click the name of an item or numbers in the
columns (**Total**, **Passed**, **Failed**, etc.), which will open the items, filtered
by the column criteria.

**"To investigate"** number - represents the number of items, which should be review
in this particular run. This value incorporates all the failed test cases and failed
preparation methods.

>   **Why the sum of the values is not equal?**

>   Total, Passed, Failed and Skipped columns counted in **TEST CASES**.

>   Product Bug (PB), Automation Bug (AB), System Issue (SI), To
>   investigate (TI) columns counted in **TEST ITEMS**.

>   The hierarchy is as follows: Test Item \> Test Case. Test items can be marked
>   with @Test Case annotation.

>   Test item includes: all preparation methods (all *Before* and *After*
>   methods), system methods, test cases.

>   Test case is just a single test case.

>   The values in the **Total** column:  Total = Passed + Failed +
>   Skipped.

>   PB + AB + SI + TI = Failed\_Test\_Cases + Skipped\_Test\_Cases +
>   other\_FAILED\_methods
 
## Navigate to items

You can navigate to certain items using clickable values and charts with the number of tests items with all statuses available within the system:
Total/Passed/Failed/Skipped/Production Bug/Automation Bug/System Issue/To Investigate (list view).

Navigation is provided for both the "Launches" and the "Debug" modes.

The system shows all relevant test cases within the launch in one table,
filtered by the column criteria.

The system allows keeping track of your location in the hierarchical launch structure, and navigating back to parent items you went through to get to the current one (breadcrumb link).

Breadcrumbs representation in the system may be different depending on away the child
item was reached. In case the child item was reached going through all upper
levels sequentially, all the hierarchical elements are reflected in the
breadcrumbs.

In case a clickable number was used for navigation, then only the highest level
(Launch) and the lowest level (Step) are represented in the breadcrumbs.
But log view of any of the last items will have full path in breadcrumbs in brackets.

One more useful feature is collapsing not failed precondition methods. 
It could be set up on the STEP view of any launch.
The switcher is located on the left hand of the Name column header.

Please note that that hidden item will not be visible on the LOG view for 'Next'/'Previous' listing.

<MediaViewer src="https://youtu.be/1QWmSH_brVg" alt="Viewing data in our test report dashboard" type="video" />

## Nested Steps

<MediaViewer src="https://youtu.be/t6kvmpwZE8Y" alt="Nested Steps" type="video" />

## Retried test case (retry)

[How can I report retry items](/developers-guides/RetriesReporting)
In case you implemented a retry logic for your tests in a test framework, ReportPortal will reflect it by adding a special retry structure. If there were a few invocations of the one test case, all these invocations will be shown as the one test case in ReportPortal.

On a long view, you can see all logs and all information about all invocations. But in statistics and auto-analysis the ReportPortal will take into account only the last invocation. So that launch statistics will be more accurate.

The defect type can be set for the last invocation only.

On a Launch view, you can see a label, which means that the launch includes retries.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/view-launches/RetriedTestCase1.png')} alt="Retry Launch Level" />

On a step view, you can see the number of invocations and stack trace of each invocation.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/view-launches/RetriedTestCase2.png')} alt="Retry Step Level" />

On a log view, you can see the number of invocations and logs, attachments of each invocation.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/view-launches/RetriedTestCase3.png')} alt="Retry Log Level" />

Commit message:

EPMRPP-111752 || Add info about 'Change status' on Log and Step level

docs/work-with-reports/ViewLaunches.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
sidebar_label: View launches
description: View and manage test launches with detailed execution data, filtering options, and real-time test reporting capabilities for comprehensive analysis.
---

# View launches

## Viewing information about all launches

A launch is an object in our test automation reporting platform, which contains your data for certain execution.  Inside the launches, we have test items, structured in the same way as you have it in your automation.

Launches are present in two modes – the Default mode on the "Launches" tab
and the Debug mode on the "Debug" tab.

### "Debug" tab

Although both modes share almost the same set of features, the "Debug" mode is
considered to be a more private one: it is not visible to the user with the
CUSTOMER role and all the filters created there cannot be saved to
"Filters". Filters are the base for building a widget, so widget charts are
not available for the launches from the "Debug" mode.

### "Launches" tab

A typical Launch structure comprises the following elements: **Suite** \> **Test**
\> **Step** \> **Log**.

:::note
The maximum page size is 300 items per page for all collection endpoints, including Launches / Suites / Tests / Steps / Logs.
:::

A suite may hierarchically lie under another suite.

The data in the "Launches" section is present in a table. By default, the
user sees all runs.

The "Launches" grid contains the following columns:

| Field        | Description | 
| -------- |-------------|
| Runs (at all launches level) |A **Launch name** or a **Suite name** or a **Class name** (depends on a drill-down level)|
| Start time |A launch start time in the "time ago" format (e.g. "10 minutes ago"); on mouse hover the system displays the accurate start time|
| Duration |The launch duration. For launches in progress remaining time is shown|
| Total |The total number of issues. It is a sum of all items with the **Passed**, **Failed**, **Skipped** and **Interrupted** statuses|
| Passed |The total number of issues that were completed with the **Passed** status.|
| Failed |The total number of issues that were completed with the **Failed** status.|
| Skipped |The total number of issues that were completed with the **Skipped** status. Any ReportPortal user can investigate failed and skipped issues with one of the following values: **Product Bug**, **Automation Bug**, **System Issue**|
| Product Bug |This type of issue is selected manually if it's a **product issue**|
| Auto Bug |This type of issue is selected manually if it's an **automation test issue**|
| System Issue |This type of issue is selected manually if it's a **system bug**|
| To investigate |The total number of **Failed** and **Skipped** issues left to investigate|

## Viewing all launches / latest launches 
You have two options to browse all project launches. By default, the system displays all launches of the project in one list in order of start time.

To filter launches, suites, tests by latest run, use the **‘Latest Launches’** option from the dropdown list (All Launches/Latest Launches) at the top of the page.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/view-launches/FilterLatestRun.png')} alt="reportportal filter latest run" />

In other words, when that option is turned on, you will see only launches with unique names with the last increment (#number).

*For example, there are launches with names ‘Demo#1’,   ‘Demo#2’, ‘Demo#3’ on a launches view. If you choose ‘Latest Launches’ option, the system will display ‘Demo#3’ launch only.*

In a Latest Launches view you may perform any regular actions: add a filter, perform actions from Actions menu, edit attributes, and edit the description.

## Viewing launch statistics

The data in the "Launches" table is present as links in the following
columns:

| Field        | Description | 
| -------- |-------------|
| Launch name |This link gives an opportunity to drill down to a specific launch|
| *Total* |This link takes you to the Test Cases view and shows all test cases within the launch in one table|
| *Passed* |This link takes you to the Test Cases view and shows all **passed** test cases within the launch in one table|
| *Failed* |This link takes you to the Test Cases view and shows all **failed** test cases within the launch in one table|
| *Skipped* |This link takes you to the Test Cases view and shows all **skipped** test cases within the launch in one table|
| *Product Bug* |This link takes you to the Test Cases view and shows all **failed** test cases marked as **"Product Bugs"** in the launch in one table|
| *Automation Bug* |this link takes you to the Test Cases view and shows all **failed** test cases marked as **"Automation Bugs"** in the launch in one table|
| *System Issue* |This link takes you to the Test Cases view and shows all **failed** test cases marked as **"System Issues"** in the launch in one table|
| *To Investigate* |This link takes you to the Test Cases view and shows all **failed** test cases with **no selected defect type** (marked as **"To Investigate"**) in the launch in one table|

To drill down your structure, click the name of an item or numbers in the
columns (**Total**, **Passed**, **Failed**, etc.), which will open the items, filtered
by the column criteria.

**"To investigate"** number - represents the number of items, which should be review
in this particular run. This value incorporates all the failed test cases and failed
preparation methods.

>   **Why the sum of the values is not equal?**

>   Total, Passed, Failed and Skipped columns counted in **TEST CASES**.

>   Product Bug (PB), Automation Bug (AB), System Issue (SI), To
>   investigate (TI) columns counted in **TEST ITEMS**.

>   The hierarchy is as follows: Test Item \> Test Case. Test items can be marked
>   with @Test Case annotation.

>   Test item includes: all preparation methods (all *Before* and *After*
>   methods), system methods, test cases.

>   Test case is just a single test case.

>   The values in the **Total** column:  Total = Passed + Failed +
>   Skipped.

>   PB + AB + SI + TI = Failed\_Test\_Cases + Skipped\_Test\_Cases +
>   other\_FAILED\_methods

## Navigate to items

You can navigate to certain items using clickable values and charts with the number of tests items with all statuses available within the system:
Total/Passed/Failed/Skipped/Production Bug/Automation Bug/System Issue/To Investigate (list view).

Navigation is provided for both the "Launches" and the "Debug" modes.

The system shows all relevant test cases within the launch in one table,
filtered by the column criteria.

The system allows keeping track of your location in the hierarchical launch structure, and navigating back to parent items you went through to get to the current one (breadcrumb link).

Breadcrumbs representation in the system may be different depending on away the child
item was reached. In case the child item was reached going through all upper
levels sequentially, all the hierarchical elements are reflected in the
breadcrumbs.

In case a clickable number was used for navigation, then only the highest level
(Launch) and the lowest level (Step) are represented in the breadcrumbs.
But log view of any of the last items will have full path in breadcrumbs in brackets.

One more useful feature is collapsing not failed precondition methods. 
It could be set up on the STEP view of any launch.
The switcher is located on the left hand of the Name column header.

Please note that that hidden item will not be visible on the LOG view for 'Next'/'Previous' listing.

<MediaViewer src="https://youtu.be/1QWmSH_brVg" alt="Viewing data in our test report dashboard" type="video" />

## Change Status on Step and Log level

ReportPortal allows to manually change the execution status of Logs and Steps.
This functionality can be used to correct execution results or reflect the actual test behavior.

You can change the status of a Step or Log to one of the following values:
- Passed
- Failed
- Skipped

**Step level**

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/view-launches/StepLevel.png')} alt="Change status on the Step level" />

**Log level**

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/view-launches/LogLevel.png')} alt="Change status on the Log level" />

Changing the status on Log or Step level affects launch statistics and aggregated counters
(Passed, Failed, Skipped) displayed in the Launches and Debug views.

:::note
Changing the execution status does not assign, modify, or remove a defect type.<br />
Defect classification (Product Bug, Automation Bug, System Issue, No Defect, To Investigate) is a separate operation and should be performed independently during failure analysis.
:::

## Nested Steps

<MediaViewer src="https://youtu.be/t6kvmpwZE8Y" alt="Nested Steps" type="video" />

## Retried test case (retry)

[How can I report retry items](/developers-guides/RetriesReporting)
In case you implemented a retry logic for your tests in a test framework, ReportPortal will reflect it by adding a special retry structure. If there were a few invocations of the one test case, all these invocations will be shown as the one test case in ReportPortal.

On a long view, you can see all logs and all information about all invocations. But in statistics and auto-analysis the ReportPortal will take into account only the last invocation. So that launch statistics will be more accurate.

The defect type can be set for the last invocation only.

On a Launch view, you can see a label, which means that the launch includes retries.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/view-launches/RetriedTestCase1.png')} alt="Retry Launch Level" />

On a step view, you can see the number of invocations and stack trace of each invocation.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/view-launches/RetriedTestCase2.png')} alt="Retry Step Level" />

On a log view, you can see the number of invocations and logs, attachments of each invocation.

<MediaViewer src={require('./img/view-launches/RetriedTestCase3.png')} alt="Retry Log Level" />
